 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026  
 
 
Kata  Examination Questions  
For  
WKF  Coaches’ Licenses  
Effective from 1st of January 2026 
 
 
1st  January 202 6 
 

 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026   KATA  EXAMINATION QUESTIONS  FOR COACHES’ LICENSES  
 TRUE OR FALSE  
1. The minimum certification required to perform as coach in all Karate 1 events (Premier 
League, Series A and Youth League) is Accredited Coach certification.  
2. The minimum certification required to perform as coach in Premier League events , and 
World Championships , is the Kumite or Kata Coach certification.  
3. During the Round -Robin rounds, the coach does not have to wear a tracksuit.  
4. The coach must know and understand the Anti -Doping rules.  
5. It is permitted for the coach to take pictures while coaching.  
6. During the match, the coach does not have to seat in the box provided.  
7. During medal bouts, male coaches must wear a dark suit, shirt and tie.  
8. Any discourteo us behavior from a coach can cause  the disqualification of a competitor, the 
entire team,  or delegation from the tournament.  
9. During medal bouts, female coaches can wear a  tracksuit.  
10. The red and blue belts must be without any personal embroideries or markings.   
11. The competitor´s fair play manners are not the responsibility of the coach.  
12. It is permitted for the coach to wear a  hat or sunglasses while coaching.  
13. It is Okay to sit as coach wearing a Karate -gi. 
14. The coach must know and unders tand the rules of competition.  
15. It is not acceptable for the coach to have a note pad and a pencil while coaching.  
16. Coaches must show respect for other  coaches , competitors, and officials.  
17. Coaches can interfere in the match at any time.  
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 18. The competitor must wear tracksuit or karate -gi at the prize ceremony.  
19. According to the Olympic Charter all kind s of political, religious or racial propaganda are not 
permitted in any Olympic sites, venues or other areas.  
20. Jackets without ties may be used.  
21. The only religiously mandated attire that can be used by competitors is the WKF 
homologated black headscarf.  
22. The competitor can wear jeans and t -shirt at the prize ceremony.  
23. The WKF adheres to the principles of the Olympic Charter.   
24. If a competitor arrives at the Tatami with unregulated equipment or Karate -gi, he/she is 
given five (5) minutes to correct matters.  
25. It is not the responsibility of the coach if the athlete´s Karate -gi is not according to the rules.  
26. The WKF homologated black h ead scarf cannot cover the neck or the throat area .  
27. A Kumite coach can direct a Kata competitor from the box.  
28. If there are any discrepancy between the number and the name of the KATA registered, the 
number of the KATA in the official WKF KATA list will prevail.  
29. The use of karate -gi with embroidery brands on the shoulders in red and blue is mandatory 
in all the WKF Official competitions.  
30. Athletes ’ behavior  is very important, and part of the values and spirit of the sport of Karate, 
and the reputatio n of their  National Federation and the WKF.  
31. The use of bandages, padding , or supports because of injury must be approved by the 
referee and done or approved by the tournament doctor.  
32. Ribbons, beads and other decorations are permitted.  
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 33. CTE (Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy) is a progressive degenerative disease of the 
brain found in athletes with a history of repetitive brain traum a and other hard impacts to 
the head. Generally, its ef fects appear in patients in their 70´s and 80´s .  
34. WKF follows the WADA Anti -Doping program and regulations.  
35. WADA has an Anti -Doping e -learning site that provides education and resources in multiple 
languages targeted at different audiences called ADel.   
36. Coaches should cooperate with athlete testing programs only if it is convenient for them .  
37. The list of prohibited substances only mentions substances that are prohibited out of  
competition.  
38. TUEs (Therapeutic Use Exemption s) ensure that you can obtain treatment for a legitimate 
medical condition — even if that treatment requires a prohibited substance or method.   
39. A TUE (Therapeutic Use Exemption) application must be made at least 30 days before 
taking part in an event.   
40. You can report Safe Sport incidents and suspicions via 2 methods : the official WKF 
complain t form, or at WKF competitions , you can speak directly to the event safeguarding 
officer.   
41. In Safe Sport Policy, the 5 categories of any non -accidental violence that will be tolerate d is 
Psychological, physical, sexual abuse, sexual harassment and neglect.  
42. Humiliating initiation routines are okay if it brings  the team together.  
43. Coaches have a duty of care to creat e the safest  possible  sport environment. This means 
understanding both their  own and their athletes ’ responsibilities in the Safe Sport 
framework.   
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 44. WKF safe sport policy protects its members from harassment, abuse and false allegations 
both in and out of competition while maintaining strict confidentiality.  
45. The back number is mandatory for Karate 1 – Premier League, Karate World 
Championships and Kar ate World Cup .  
46. A concussion is not serious because you can not see it on a clinical imaging tool like an 
MRI.   
47. If an athlete suffers a concussion, he/she needs to be identified and leave the competition 
as repeated concussion can occur even with less sever e blows and the potential of 
suffering from second impact syndrome, which has a death rate of 50%.  
48. If the athlete does not lose consciousness, it is not a concussion.  
49. After a concussion, it is recommended to apply a gradual return to play (RTP) protocol 
where the athlete will progressively go through different stages while remaining 
asymptomatic.  
50. Performing a scissor takedown technique to the neck area is allowed only in the (Bunkai ) in 
the final bout . 
51. In Bunkai performance, transitional movements and control are part of the performance . 
52. In Bunkai performance; balance, timing and speed are not part of the performance .  
53. Bunkai is to be given equal importance as the Kata itself.  
54. Strength, speed, balance and focus are part of the Kata performance.   
55. If the competitor’s belt falls off during the performance of Kata the competitor will be 
disqualified.   
56. Causing injury by lack of contr olled technique during Bunkai is not considered a foul.  
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 57. Time wasting, including prolonged marching, excessive bowing or prolonged pause before 
starting the performance is considered a foul.   
58. The Karate -gi must not be altered or manipulated to change its shape .  
59. Stamping the feet, slapping the chest, arms or karate -gi, are audible cues.   
60. It is the responsibility of the President of the National Federation to ensure that the Kata as 
notified to the score table is appropriate for that particular round.  
61. Kata performance must demonstrate strength, power, and speed, as well as grace, rhythm, 
and balance.  
62. In the bouts for medals in team Kata competition, teams will perform a demonstration of the 
meaning of the Kata (Bunkai).  
63. The three major criteria are: conformance, technical performance and athletic performance.  
64. The competitors can select any Kata from the official Kata list.   
65. Coin toss is the last criteria to resolve the tie at the end of round  robin in individual 
competition.  
66. In World Championships, it is permitted for Kata coaches who are part of a National 
Federation delegation t o coach their  Competitor s bouts without having the required Coach 
Certification level.  
67.  Not announcing the KATA name is just a foul .  
68. For medal bouts in team Kata, a Time Keeper will keep track of the maximum performance 
time.   
69. A Kata can only be repeated when it is use d as tiebreaker.   
70. In Bunkai performance: strength, timing and techniques are part of the performance.  
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 71. There are three general Categories in Para -Karate competitions: Visually Impaired, 
Intellectually Impaired and Wheelchair Users.  
72. Persistent and obvious repetition of theatrics such as Stamping the Feet or Slapping the 
Chest is  reason for  disqualification .  
73. At World Championships in Para -Karate, coaches need to have at least the WKF Certified 
Kata Coach License.   
74. In wheelchairs, during Para -Karate competition advertising cannot be placed on the 
backrest.  
75. In case of emergency evacuation during Para -Karate competitions, the national coaches 
are directly responsible for the safe removal  of the Athletes.  
76. During the Classification Session in Para -Karate, the competitor’s coach doesn’t have to be 
present with the Athlete at all times.  
77. In Team competition, the total time allowed for Kata and Bunkai is five (5) minutes.  
78. In case of a protes t, the coach should ask a referee for help.   
79. The judges cannot explain the outcome of a bout to a coach or competitor.  
80. Video review applies also for Kata Competition.  
81. If there is an administrative malfunction, the Coach can notify the Tatami Manager directly .  
82. The Tatami Manager can recommend the coach to write a protest.   
83. If a refereeing procedure appears to contravene the rules, the Competitor’s Coach is not 
allowed to make a written protest  in KATA Competitions .  
84. The competitors have to fol low the instructions of the controllers regarding the Karate -gi 
and the belt.  
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 85. For categories  under  14 years  of age only four KATA is required . 
86. The accreditation of a Kata athlete as they do not need to pass the weighing control, they 
can be collected without showing their passport.   
87. In senior world championships, Kata  can be repeated  after performing five different kata but 
cannot be repeated twice in a row .  
88. Excessive celebration after winning the medal bout is permitted.  
89. Kata Team members must all wear the  same  brand mark  on the shoulders . 
90. If a competitor arrives at the Tatami with unre gulated equipment or Karate -gi, he/she is 
given two (2) minutes to correct matters . 
91. Performance of an extra Kata  is the last criteria to resolve the tie in individual round robin.  
92. Simulated unconsciousness is not considered a foul in case of good BUNKAI performance.  
93. It is the responsibility of the head of delegation to ensure that the kata being notified to the 
runner is the appropriate kata for that particular round.  
94. Having to take a corrective step to recover from a total loss of balance or have a fall is a 
foul. 
95. In Para -Karate Competitions, Athletes of the Visually Impaired Class (K10) are required to 
wear blindfo lds that fully block vision including International Blind Sports Federation (IBSA) 
approved black -out blindfolds for blind sports.  
96. In Para -Karate Competitions, Athletes with more than one type of impairment will be 
allowed to compete in more than one sport  class during the championships.  
97. In Para -Karate Competitions, Competitors from the Intellectually Impaired category (Sport 
Classes K21 and K22) may perform the same Kata in each round.  
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 98. In Para -Karate World Championships, coaches need to be part of a Nation al Federation 
delegation and have the required Kata license . 
99. In Para -Karate, Coach instructions or deliberate external guidance during the kata 
performance, such as spoken directions or visible signals after the start of the performance, 
is reason for disqualification.  
100. A Karate -gi is considered "WKF approved" if its brand is published in the WKF official 
website.  
101. The use of karate -gi with embroidery brands on the shoulders in white is allowed in all 
the WKF Official competitions.  
102. It is permitted for the  coach to have electronic communication devices while coaching.  
103. It is permitted for the coach to wear Sandals, or any other open -toe shoe while coaching 
medal bouts.  
104. A coach may subject to have his/her coaching license suspended for a period  
up to 6 month s if his Competitor appear at the competition area with unauthorized 
equipment or irregular Karate -gi. 
105. For WKF World Individual Championships - Phase 2, and Karate 1 - Premier League, 
the eight highest ranked Competitors present at the competition are seed ed. 
106. A scissor takedown to the body or legs is permitted.  
107. Minor loss of balance is considered a disqualification.  
108. Omitting or adding movements is allowed in medal bouts.  
109. Blindfolds moving out of the correct position, so that they partially or fully uncover one or 
both eyes during the performance  is reason for disqualification . 
 
Coaches Kata  Examination Questions , January  2026 110. Straps used during competition must be the same type and configuration as those used 
in the Classification Session  
111. Belt coming loose to the extent that it is coming off the hips during the performance is a 
foul. 
112. Intentional misrepresentation of impairment is not  a reason  for disqualification . 
113. To decide the winner of kata bout, Decision is based on the majority of votes by the 
judges.  
114. KIAI must be short, concentrated and simultaneously with the technique, otherwise it 
will be considered as foul.  
115. Prescription sport -glasses soft contact lenses can be worn at the athlete's own risk.  
******** *******************   
1st  January 202 6 
