 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026  
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions  
For  
WKF  Coaches’ Licenses  
Effective from 1st of January 2026 
 
 
1st  January 202 6 
 

 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026   KUMITE EXAMINATION QUESTIONS  FOR COACHES’ LICENSES  
 TRUE OR FALSE  
1. The minimum certification required to perform as coach in all Karate 1 events (Premier 
League, Series A and Youth League) is Accredited Coach certification.  
2. The minimum certification required to perform as coach in Premier League events , and 
World Championships , is the Kumite or Kata Coach certification.  
3. During the elimination rounds, the coach does not have to wear a tracksuit.  
4. The coach must know and understand the Anti -Doping rules.  
5. It is permitted for the coach to take pictures while coaching.  
6. The competito r´s fair play manners are not the responsibility of the coach.  
7. During medal bouts, male coaches must wear a dark suit, shirt and tie.  
8. Any discourteous behavior from a coach can cause  the disqualification of a competitor, the 
entire team or delegation from  the tournament.  
9. During the match, the coach does not have to be seated in the box provided.  
10. It is Okay to sit as coach wearing a Karate -Gi. 
11. The coach must know and understand the rules of competition.  
12. It is accept able for the coach to do video recording while coaching.  
13. It is permitted for the coach to wear a  hat or sunglasses while coaching.  
14. During medal bouts female coaches can wear a tracks uit.  
15. It is not acceptable for the coach to have a note pad and a pencil while coaching.  
16. Coaches must show respect for other  coaches , competitors, and officials.  
17. Coaches can interfere in the match at any time.  
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 18. The competitor must wear tracksuit or karate -Gi at the prize ceremony.  
19. Jackets without ties may be used.  
20. According to the Olympic Charter all kind of political, religious or racial propaganda are not 
permitted in any Olympic sites, venues or other areas.  
21. The competitor can wear jeans and t -shirt at the prize ceremony.  
22. The only religiously mandated attire that can be used by competitors is the WKF 
homologated black headscarf.  
23. The red and blue belts must be without any personal embroideries or markings.  
24. Female competitors do not have to have chest prot ector if they have body protector.  
25. The WKF adheres to the principles of the Olympic Charter.  
26. If a competitor arrives at the Tatami with unregulated equipment or Karate -Gi, he/she is 
given five (5) minutes to correct matters.  
27. The children ’s chest protector  and the protective helmet  are compulsory in  the Under 14 
categories.  
28. The chest protector and the protective helmet  are compulsory in  all the Under 21 
categories.  
29. Athletes ’ behavior  is very important, and part of the values and spirit of the sport of Karate, 
and the reputation of their  National Federation and the WKF.  
30. The use of bandages, padding or supports because of injury must be approved by the 
referee and done or approved by the tournament doctor.  
31. Ribbons, beads and other decorations are permitted.  
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 32. CTE (Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy) is a progressive degenerative disease of the 
brain found in athletes with a history of repetitive brain traum a and other hard impacts to 
the head. Generally, its effec ts appear in patients in their 70´s and 80´s.  
33. WKF follows the WADA Anti -Doping program and regulations.  
34. WADA has an Anti -Doping e -learning site that provides education and resources in multiple 
languages targeted at different audiences called ADel.  
35. Coach es should cooperate with athlete testing programs only if it is convenient for them.  
36. The list of prohibited substances only mentions substances that are prohibited out of  
competition.  
37. TUEs (Therapeutic Use Exemption s) ensure that you can obtain treatment for a legitimate 
medical condition — even if that treatment requires a prohibited substance or method.  
38. A TUE (Therapeutic Use Exemption) application must be made at least 30 days before 
taking part in an event.  
39. If an emergency or urgent treatment of a medical condition was necessary, a TUE 
(Therapeutic Use Exemption) may be approved retroactively.  
40. You can report Safe Sport incidents and suspicions via 2 methods : the official WKF 
complain t form, or at WKF competitions , you can speak directly to the event safeguarding 
officer.  
41. In Safe Sport Policy, the 5 categories of any non -accidental violence that will be tolerate is 
psychological, physical, sexual abuse, sexual harassment and neglect.  
42. Humiliating initiation routine s are okay if it brings the team together.  
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 43. Coaches have a duty of care to creat e the safest  possible  sport environment. This means 
understanding both their  own and their athletes ’ responsibilities in the Safe Sport 
framework.  
44. WKF Safe Sport Policy protect s its members from harassment, abuse, and false allegations 
both in and out of competition while maintaining strict confidentiality.  
45. The main factors involved in injury prevention is the level of the competitors, the technique 
used, the permissiveness of the referees in relation to contact , and the level of aggressively 
promoted by coaches.  
46. A concussion is not serious because you cannot see it on a clinical imaging tool like an 
MRI. 
47. If an athlete suffers a concussion, he/she needs to be identified and lea ve the competition 
as repeated concussion can occur even with less severe blows and the potential of 
suffering from second impact syndrome, which has a death rate of 50%.  
48. If the athlete does not lose consciousness, it is not a concussion.  
49. After a concussion, it is recommended to apply a gradual return to play (RTP) protocol 
where the athlete will progressively go through different stages while remaining 
asymptomatic.  
50. The resting time for competitors in case they have to change equipment & co lor is five (5) 
minutes.  
51. The resting time for competitors between bouts  is equal to the duration time of the bout. 
52. The minimum warning for running away, avoiding combat or/and wasting time during Atoshi 
Baraku is Hansoku Chui.  
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 53. Ippon is awarded for Jodan Geri or any hand techniques against an opponent whose any 
part of the body other than the feet is in contact with the mat , with the exception of being 
scored upon when attacking from Hiza Gamae (Kneeling on one knee) . 
54. Hansoku Chui is normally imposed where the contestant’s potential for winning is seriously 
diminished by the opponent’s foul.  
55. Simulated attacks with the head, knees or elbows are not an offense.  
56. If a contestant scores with more than one consecutive techn ique before Yame, the judges 
must show the higher point regardless of which sequence the techniques scored.  
57. Ippon is awarded for Chudan Kicks.  
58. In order to give points, the referee must have a minimum of two judges showing the  same 
signal.  
59. If AKA scores ju st as AO steps outside of the match area, only the score will be given and 
no warning or penalty for the exit of AO.   
60. Waza -Ari means one point.  
61. Jogai occurs when a contestant exits from the competition area and it is not caused by the 
opponent.  
62. A contesta nt may be penalized for exaggeration even if there is an actual injury.  
63. If a competitor makes a good Chudan kick and the opponent catches the leg a score 
cannot be given.  
64. A Kumite competitor who receives Kiken in  a category cannot compete again in  any other 
categories in that tournament.  
65. A male team can compete with only two competitors.  
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 66. An extra bout is used to break the tie in team matches.  
67. In team matches should a competitor receive Hansoku their score , if any , will be zeroed 
and the opponent’s score will be set at eight points.  ` 
68. A warning or penalty for Mubobi is given when a compe titor is hit or injured through his own 
fault or negligence  or he has forgotten to use the groin guard . 
69. When referee announces WAKARATE and one of the competitors has exit the competition 
area a JOGAI warning will be imposed.  
70. Under 21 years Male bouts are always three minutes and two minutes for females . 
71. Chui-1, Chui -2, Chui -3 and Hansoku -Chui are warnings.  
72. If one judge signals score for AO the referee must stop the match.  
73. Round robin in groups followed by Elimination is used for Senior Kumite World 
Championships for both individuals and Teams . 
74. In case of a protest, the coach should ask a referee for help.  
75. The referees c annot explain the outcome of a bout to a coach or competitor.  
76. The Tatami Manager can recommend the coach to write a protest.  
77. If there is an administrative malfunction, the coach can notify the Tatami Manager directly.  
78.  The referees can explain the outcom e of a bout to a coach or competitor.  
79. Coaches request Video  Review only for acquiring missed possible  points from judges . 
80. The coach should always have an official protest kit available.  
81. The competitor can discreetly signal the coach that he wants Video Re view.  
82. When an injured contestant has been given medical treatment and the official doctor says 
that the contestant can continue fighting , the referee cannot overrule the doctor's decision.  
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 83. One of the duties of the referee is to issue warnings and impose p enalties.  
84. The competitors have to follow the instructions of the controllers regarding the Karate -Gi 
and the homologated protections.  
85. The decision of the Video Review Judge  can be overruled by the referee . 
86. For a draw i n a Round -robin bout, one victory point is assigned  to each competitor  if the 
bout result is not 0 -0. 
87. In team matches, it is allowed to change the Coach between bouts.   
88. A Kata coach may direct a Kumite competitor from the box.  
89. The accreditation of a Kumite athlete can be collected without showing the passport.  
90. It is not the responsibility of the coach if the athlete´s Karate -Gi is not according to the 
rules.  
91. A Karate -Gi is considered "WKF approved" if its brand is published in the WKF official 
website.  
92. An athlete can wear different brands  of protection equipment as long as the used brands 
are WKF homologated .  
93. The use of karate -Gi with embroidery brands on the shoulde rs in white is allowed in all the 
WKF Official competitions.  
94.The use of karate -Gi with embroidery brands on the shoulders in red and blue is mandatory 
in all the WKF Official compet itions . 
95.It is permitted for the coach to have electronic communication devices while coaching.  
96.It is permitted for the coach to wear Sandals, or any other open -toe shoe while  coaching  
medal bouts . 
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 97. A coach may subject  to have his/her coaching license suspended for a period up to 6 
months if his Competitor appear at the competition area with unauthorized equipment or 
irregular Karate -gi. 
98. For WKF World Individual Championships - Phase 2, and Karate 1 - Premier League, the 
eight highest  ranked Competitors present at the competition are seeded . 
99. In the Round -robin phase of the World Cup, male teams are allowed to participate 
with less than 5 Athletes.  
100. Coaches can ask for video review if they believe their athletes make a correct  technique 
at the same time  as the WAKARATE  is called . 
101. During the medal final bouts in case of disqualification by SHIKAKU, the competitor will 
lose the bout and be awarded  the s ilver medal.  
102. It is the duty of the Coach to ask for his Video Review  card whenever he has the right to 
have it, and is  not returned  by the Tatami Manager . 
103. WKF approved groin guard  for male Competitors  is mandatory  only in the finals.  
104.  During Round -robin  competition,  the Team may not  complete all the individu al bouts . 
105. For Competitors under 14 years skin touch is not allowed with hand techniques . 
106. Any registered member of the delegation attending the Championships are allowed to 
coach and guide the Competitor during the bout.  
107. The Coach may freely speak to the Competitor at all times during the bouts.  
108. Coach can ask for a higher score using the video rev iew Card.  
109. In World Championships, Kumite coaches need to be part of a National Federation delegation 
and have the required Coach Certification level when acting during the bout of his Competitor.  
 
Coaches Kumite Examination Questions , January  2026 110. Kumite Team members must all wear the same colour  and same b rand mark  on the 
shoulders . 
111. The back number is  not mandatory for Karate 1 – Premier League, Karate World 
Championships, and Karate World Cup.  
112. For Female Athletes under 14 years of age, the use of WKF Approved chest protector is 
not compulsory.  
113. Kicking techniqu es against a downed opponent who is lying flat on the floor is permitted . 
114. Coaches banned from the competition are not allowed to coach or guide the Athletes, in 
or out of the field of play.  
115. An accepted protest does not mean that a bout or match will automa tically be redone.  
116. A Coach asking for video review should get up.  . 
117. A technique is invalid if it is followed by a foul of excessive contact or otherwise causing injury.  
118. There are three level of Coach license s; Accredited Coach , KATA or KUMITE Certified 
Coach , and Karate Certified Coach .  
119. In competitions with Video Review,  upon prior request of the National Federation, WKF 
may authorize a Coach from a different delegation to act as a Coach for their delegation.  
120. Where Coaches are provided electronic equipment that allows requesting review for 
specifically YUKO, WAZA ARI or IPPON, the Coach may change the level of the score 
after requesting before the Referee finishes his signal of video review.  
******** *******************   
1st  January 202 6 
