World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December  2025  
 
1 / 8 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Kata  Competition  
 
 
Examination questions for Kata  & Para -Karate Judges  
Version 1st December  2025 
  
 
 
The answer paper is to be returned to the examiners. All answers are to be entered on the 
separate answer paper only. You must make sure that your name , country, number and 
any other information required are entered on the answer paper.  
 
You may not have any additional papers or books on your desk while undertaking this 
examination. During the examination to be seen speaking to another candidate or copying 
another’s paper will mean suspension and automatic failure of the examination. If yo u are 
not sure of the correct procedures or have any questions about any aspect of the 
examination,  you should speak only to an examiner , the RC Secretary or Asst. Secretary . 
 
The result of the examination both theory and practical will be sent to the candidate’s 
National Federation  on request . 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                        
 
 
 
 
                          
  
         World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
2 / 8 KATA  & PARA -KARATE EXAMINATION  
 
 
“TRUE OR FALSE”  
 
 
On the answer paper put an “X” in the appropriate box. The answer to a question is 
true only if it can be held to be true in all situations;  otherwise,  it is considered to be 
false. Each correct answer scores one point.  
 
 
 
1. Kata  team members must all wear the same brand  of Karate  Gi.  
2. The total time allowed for the Kata  and BUNKAI  demonstration combined, is six 
minutes.  
3. In Kata  competition slight variations as taught by the contestant's style  (Ryu-ha) are 
permitted.  
4. Glasses are forbidden in Kata  competition .  
5. Only one discreet rubber band on a single ponytail is permitted.  
6. The right to seeding does down flow to lower places in the absence of Athlete s eligible 
for seeding.  
7. Kata  competition can be organized in several formats .   
8. In all competition format, t he number of Athlete s cannot exceed 8.  
9. Judges should look for correct Kihon of the school being demonstrated.  
10. Team matches consist of competition between teams of 3 or 4 Athlete s of which 3 
compete at the time . 
11. Conformance is a consistency in the performance of the Kihon of the style ( Ryu-ha) in 
the Kata .  
12. Should there be any discrepancy between the number and the name of the Kata  
registered for performance, the name, as per the official WKF Kata  list will prevail . 
13. When a team has 4 Athlete s, all 4 may be used for any round . 
14. Giving a command to start and finish the Kata  by a team member is not considered to 
be an external cue.   
15. The mats must form a uniformed colo ured surface for Kata  competition . 
16. Judges should look for correct Kihon of the Athlete ´s style  (Ryu -ha) being 
demonstrated.  
         World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
3 / 8 17. The panel of Judges can be changed for any single round.   
18. The total time allowed for the Kata  & BUNKAI  demonstration combined, is 5 minutes.  
19. In Kata  competition the sleeves of the Karate -gi jacket may not be rolled up .  
20. It is the responsibility of the coach or Athlete  to notify the name and the number of the 
Kata  to the score table /runner  prior each round.  
21. The number of Judges per panel may be reduced to five for any competition.  
22. A previously performed Kata  may be repeated only if used as tiebreaker .  
23. The Karate -Gi trousers may be slightly shorter so as to only cover half of the shin .  
24. The total time allowed for the Kata  performance  and Bunkai demonstration , is five 
minutes.    
25. In the event that there are 3 or less Athlete s a single Kata  is performed to determine 1st 
through 3rd place . 
26. The Judges of a Kata  bout may not have the same nationality as either of the 
contestants .  
27. Although ribbons and other decorations for the hair are not allowed in kumite,  they are 
permissible in Kata .  
28. In the bouts for medals  in Team Kata  competition , teams will perform a demonstration 
of the meaning of the Kata  (BUNKAI ).  
29. It is not possible to repeat a Kata  in the Round -robin elimination system . 
30. For competitions not counting for WKF World Ranking or Olympic standing, the 
number of judges may be reduced to 5.  
31. The same Kata  may never be performed twice in a row in the Round -robin system . 
32. If an already qualified Team  is disqualified for misconduct at the end of the Round -
robin round (SHIKKAKU): The semi -final opponent will access to the final by bye . 
33. Female Athlete s must wear a plain white T -shirt beneath the Karate  jacket.   
34. Female Athlete s can, if they want, wear a plain white T -shirt beneath the Karate  jacket.   
35. The wearing of unauthorised apparel, clothing or equipment is forbidden.   
36. A discreet rubber band or ponytail  retainer is permitted in Kata  competition.   
37. The matted Kumite areas are not suitable for Kata  competition.   
38. The Karate -gi jacket may be removed during the performance of Kata .  
39. Audible cues are on the same level as one would penalize a temporary loss of balance.  
40. Variations as taught by the contestant’s style (Ryu -ha) of Karate  will not be permitted . 
         World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
4 / 8 41. The score table must  be notified of the choice of Kata prior to each round.    
42. A team which does not perform the bow at the completion of the BUNKAI  
performance will be disqualified.        
   
43. The number of Kata required is dependent on the number of individual Athlete s or 
teams entered.   
44. If an already qualified Athlete  is disqualified for misconduct at the end of the Round -
robin round (SHIKKAKU): the bronze medal will be awarded . 
45. In assessing the performance of a contestant or team the Judges will evaluate the 
performance based on all criteria.   
46. There are no specific deviations for those under 14 years of age from the standard rules, 
but a limitation to the Kata  list to less advanced Kata  may be used . 
47. Causing injury by lack of controlled technique during BUNKAI  is considered a foul.   
48. For medal bouts, none of the Judges may have the same nationality, as the Athlete s. 
49. Performances are given a score using a scale from 5.0 to 10.0 in increments of 0.1 . 
50. Coin toss is the first choice to resolve the ties .  
51. There are 6 ways to resolve a tie In Round -robin Elimination System with 4 Athlete s. 
52. Strength is  one of the  criteria of evaluation . 
53. There are 6 ways to resolve a tie when having elimination system with 8 Athlete s. 
54. There are 10 criteria for Kata  evaluation . 
55. Transitional movement is one of the Criteria for evaluation for Kata  Performance but 
not for BUNKAI . 
56. In BUNKAI  performance,  transitional movements and control are par t of the 
evaluation.  
57. Strength, Speed and Balance are some of the criteria of evaluation for Kata  and 
BUNKAI . 
58. Simulated unconsciousness for more than 2 seconds at the time as part of the BUNKAI  
is considered as foul . 
59. BUNKAI  are to be given equal importance as the Kata  itself.  
60. Excessive bowing before starting the pe rformance is considered a foul.  
61. Causing injury by lack of controlled technique during BUNKAI  is a disqualification . 
62. Not announcing the Kata , is not considered as disqualification .   
63. Performing the wrong Kata  or announcing the wrong Kata  leads to disqualification.  
         World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
5 / 8 64. Stamping the feet, slapping the chest, arms, or Karate -gi, will be taken into account by 
the Judges when arriving at a decision.  
65. An Athlete  will not be disqualified if he does a distinct pause or stop in the 
performance for several seconds.  
66. BUNKAI  is not to be given equal imp ortance as the Kata  itself.  
67. Kata  must start facing the Judges . 
68. The use of audible cues from any other person, including other team members is 
considered a foul.  
69. If the Athlete ’s belt falls off during the performance of Kata,  the Athlete  will be  
disqualified.  
70. Failure to follow the instructions of the Judge  nr. 1 or other m isconduct is considered a 
foul. 
71. Failure to follow the instructions of the Juddge nr. 1 or other misconduct leads to 
disqualification.   
72. Exceeding the total time limit of 5 minutes duration for Kata  and BUNKAI  is 
considered a foul.  
73. In Team Kata , all three team members must start and finish the Kata  facing in the same 
direction a nd towards the Judge s. 
74. Kata  performance must be realistic in fighting terms and display concentration, power, 
and pote ntial impact in its techniques.  
75. Causing injury by lack of controlled technique during BUNKAI  is not considered a 
foul. 
76. Minor loss of balance must not be considered in the evaluation of the Kata  
performance.  
77. Exceeding the total time limit of 5  minutes duration for Kata  and BUNKAI  leads to 
disqualification.  
78. Kata  performance must demonstrate strength, balance,  and speed.  
79. Minor loss of balance must be considered in the evalua tion of the Kata  performance.  
80. Asynchronous movement, such as delivering a technique before the body transition is 
completed is considered a foul.  
81. Inappropriate exhalation will be taken into account by the Judges when arriving at a 
decision.  
82. In team Kata,  failing to do a movement in unison is not considered a foul.  
83. Performing a movement in an incorrect or incomplet e manner is considered a foul.  
         World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
6 / 8 84. Time wasting, including prolonged marching, excessive bowing or prolonged pause 
before starting the performance  is considered a foul.  
85. Stamping the feet, slapping the chest, arms, or Karate -gi, are audible  cues.  
86. The use of audible cues  is not considered a foul.  
87. Inappropriate exhalation is not an audible cue.  
88. Failure to fully execute a block or punching off  target is considered a foul.  
89. Causing injury by lack of controlled technique d uring BUNKAI  is allowed.  
90. The members of the team must demonstrate competence in all aspects of the Kata  
performance, as well  as synchronisation.  
91. Commands to start and stop the performance will  be taken into account by the Judges 
when arriving at a decision.  
92. It is the responsibility of the President of the National Federation to ensure that the 
Kata  as notified to the score table is appropriate fo r that particular round.  
93. While performing BUNKAI , after being downed the Athlete  should either raise to one 
knee or stand  up within 2 seconds . 
94. Omitting or adding movements - or otherwise substantially change the performance 
from its original form is a disqualification .  
95. Excessive celebration and political or religious demonstrations is considered as 
disqualification for kumite but not for Kata.  
96. The Athlete  must wait on the tatami for the announcement of the evaluation at the end 
of performance.  
97. The Athlete s can select any Kata  from the official Kata  list. 
98. A team which does not perform the bow at the beginning and completion of the  
performance wil l be disqualified.  
99. The use of traditional weapons, ancillary equipm ent or additional apparel is allowed . 
100. The performance in individual Kata  is evaluated from the bo w starting the Kata until 
the bow ending the Kata . 
101. Belt coming loose to the extent that it is coming off the hip s during the performance is 
a foul.  
102. Belt coming loose to the extent that it is coming off the hip s during the performance is 
a disqualification.  
103. After the bow the Athlete  must clearly announce  the name of the Kata  that is to be 
performed and then start the performance . 
104. There are 9 criteria in  each Kata  evaluation .   
         World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
7 / 8 105. Although performing a scissor takedown technique ( KANI BASAMI) to the neck area 
in performing BUNKAI  is prohibited, a scissor take down to the body is permitted.  
106. Performing a scissor takedown technique (KANI BASAMI) to the neck area in 
BUNKAI is not prohibited.  
107. Audible cues must be considered very serious fouls by the judges in their evaluation of 
the performance of the Kata .  
108. The protest can be submitted to a representative of the Appeals Jury by the coach . 
109. It is the responsibility of the Tatami Manager receiving the protest to gather the 
Appeals Jury and deposit the protest sum with WKF for any declined protest . 
110. Each of the three members of Appeal Jury is obliged to give hi s verdict as to the 
validity of the protest. Abstentions are not acceptable . 
111. In Para-Karate , advertising i n the wheelchairs  can be placed on the backrest.  
112. If the protest is accepted, the Appeals Jury will appoint one of its members who will 
verbally notify the protester that the protest has been accepted . 
113. There are three general Categories in Para Karate  competitions: Visually Impaired , 
Intellectually  Impaired and Physically Impaired . 
114. In Para -Karate, p rostheses, canes, crutches,  and other equipment used for physical 
support are allowed in Para -Karate  competitions.  
115. Those Athlete s whose disabilities have been classified as Ineligible or who have been 
considered non -compliant or in violation of competition rules are non -eligible to 
compete in WKF Para -Karate . 
116. In Para -Karate, t he seven judges will give their scores based on the assessment of the 
Kata  performance and the level of Athlete 's impairment .  
117. Para-Karate  competitions consist of both Kata  and Kumite.  
118. Wheelchairs with anti -tip wheels are allowed in Para -Karate  competitions . 
119. Classification in Para -Karate  consists of an extra point compensation depending on the 
influence of the particular impairment when performing the Kata . 
120. In Para -Karate, M edical Diagnostic Forms prove the eligibility of the Athlete ’s 
impairment and are, together with functional testing at the competition, a tool to 
provide a more accurate classification of the Athlete .  
121. All Para -Karate  Athlete s are allowed to wear white sport shoes . 
122. In Para -Karate, i n case of additional Classification testing, Doping Control, fire or 
other need for emergency evacuation, the national coaches are directly responsible for 
safe removal of the Athlete s.  
123. In Para -Karate, c ontestants from the Intellectually Impaired  category may perform the 
same Kata  in each round.   
         World Karate  Federation  
 
 
 
Kata and Para -Karate Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
8 / 8 124. Service animals trained and certified to detect life -threatening conditions are not 
allowed at the external perimeter of the competition area  in Para -Karate .  
125. The Appeals Jury must elaborate a simple protest incident report, describing their 
findings and state their reason(s) for accepting or rejecting the protest . 
126. There is 100 Kata  on the official Kata  list. 
127. Resolution for ties  in Para -Karate,  will follow the WKF Kata  Competition Rules.   
128. In Para -Karate, t herapy animals or emotional -support animals are allowed in the 
competition area or its perimeter.  
129. In Para -Karate, i t is allowed for Athlete s of Visually Impaired  Classes to wear 
blindfolds with logos or markings from sponsors or manufacturers.  
130. The straps to fix the legs of wheelchair Athlete s in Para -Karate, must be of white color 
and without logos.  
131. In Para -Karate, sc ore compensation system by means of Extra Points,  must be given 
by the judging panel to the influence of his or her particular impairment . 
 
132. There are three Sport Classes in Individual Para -Karate  Kata  Competition . 
 
133. Visually Impaired Athlete s in Para -Karate competition are divided in two categories .  
 
134. Juniors/cadets Sport Classes are recommended for Para -Karate  development . 
135. In Para -Karate Competitions, b lindfolds are required for all Visually Impaired 
Athlete s during the performance . 
136. Intellectual impair ed Athlete s, in Para -Karate, will perform the Kata standing up . 
137. Intellectual impair ed Athlete s, in Para -Karate, cannot repeat the Kata.   
 
