  World Karate Federation  
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions . Version  1st December  2025  
1/17 
 
 
 
  Kumite Competition  
 
 
Examination Questions  for Kumite Referees and Judges  
                                Version  1st December  2025  
 
 
The answer paper is to be returned to the examiners. All answers are to be entered on the 
separate answer paper only. You must make sure that your name, country, number and 
any other information required are entered on the answer paper.  
 
You may not have any additional papers or books on your desk while undertaking this 
examination. During the examination to be seen speaking to another candidate or copying 
another’s paper will mean suspension and automatic failure of the examination. If yo u are 
not sure of the correct procedures or have any questions about any aspect of the 
examination,  you should speak only to an examiner, the RC Secretary or Asst. Secretary.  
 
The result of the examination s both theory and practical will be sent to the candidate’s 
National Federation  on request . 
 
 
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
2/17 
KUMITE EXAMINATION  
 
 “TRUE OR FALSE”  
 
On the answer paper put an “X” in the appropriate box. The answer to a question is 
true only if it can be held to be true in all situations ; otherwise,  it is considered to be 
false. Each correct answer scores one point.  
 
1. Any Voluntary religious headwear can be worn.  
  
2. The Karate -Gi jacket must be more than three -quarters thigh length.   
3. The Karate -Gi trousers must cover at least two -thirds of the shin.   
4. The Karate -Gi jacket sleeve must be no longer than the bend of the wrist.  
5. If an Athlete ’s Karate -Gi jacket sleeves are too long and a suitable replacement cannot 
be found in time the Referee can allow him to turn them up on the inside.   
6. Athlete s may wear 1 or 2 discreet rubber band or ponytail  retainer in their hair. 
Ribbons, beads and other decorations are prohibited .  
7. Earrings are allowed if they are  covered with tape .  
8. Metallic teeth (dental) braces may be worn at the Athlete ’s own risk if approved by 
the Referee and the Official Doctor.   
9. Athlete s must bow properly to each other at the start and end of the bout .  
10. The coach may change the team fighting order during a match .  
11. If an Athlete  is injured in an individual bout the coach can enter a replacement if he 
notifies the Organising Commission first.  
12. Each Judge must be equipped with a red and a blue flag or electronic signal device . 
13. If two teams have the same number of victories and points, a deciding bout will be 
held.   
14. The Match Supervisor  (KANSA) will be equipped with only a whistle . 
15. Disqualification by KIKEN  means that the Athlete s are disqualified from that 
category . 
16. Heels of more than 4 cm may not be worn with the uniform . 
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
3/17 
17. Senior Male bouts are three minutes, and Women, Cadets, and Juniors,  two minutes.   
18. Kumite team members may wear any type of Karate Gi.   
19. Different type of Karate -Gi brands  may be used for team members .  
20. An Athlete  does not need to change the jacket if ties are torn off during the bout.  
21. Athlete s may wear any white Karate Gi.  
 
22. A fast combination of CHUDAN  Geri and TSUKI  each of which score in their own 
right will be given IPPON.  
23. In Senior bouts  a light “glo ve touch” to the throat need no  result in a warning or 
penalty provided there is no actual injury.   
24. A kick in the groin will not result in a penalty provided the offender did not do it 
intentionally.   
25. For Athlete s under 14 years of age , the WKF approved protective helmet is 
compulsory.   
26. If SENSHU  is wi thdrawn when it is less tha n 15 seconds left of the bout, no  further 
SENSHU  can be  awarded to either Athlete .  
27. Should a n Athlete  that has been awarded SENSHU  receive a warning for avoiding 
combat when there is less than 15 seconds left of the bout – the Athlete  will 
automat ically forfeit this advantage.  
28. Voluntary religious  headwear must be approved by the WKF .  
 
29. The WKF Competition Supervisor , or the Organizing Commission, can allow 
Coaches to instead of the track suit top to use any t -shirt. 
30. HANSOKU -CHUI is given when the Athlete ’s potential for winning has been 
seriously reduced by the opponent’s foul.   
31. The weight tolerance admitted for male and female 0.5 kg . 
32. HANSOKU  is imposed for very serious rules infractions.   
33. SHIKKAKU can only be imposed  after a warning has been given .  
34. If an Athlete  acts maliciously, SHIKKAKU  and not HANSOKU  is the correct 
penalty.  
35. If an Athlete  acts maliciously, H ANSOKU  is the correct penalty.   
36. An Athlete  can be given SHIKKAKU  if the behaviour of the coach or non -combatant 
members of the Athlete ’s delegation is considered to harm the prestige and honour of 
Karate -do.  
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
4/17 
37. The same tolerance applies to both the upper and lower limits of a weight class . 
38. For individual competition, the Round -robin system followed by quarterfinals, semi -
finals and final is applied . 
39. There are five criteria to be met in determining a score.   
 
40. A male team must present minimum five Athlete s for the initial round . 
41. Male teams’  elimination comprises  five to seven members with five competing in a 
round .  
42. A female team must present minimum two Athlete s for the initial round .  
 
43. The maximum 32 Athlete s per category are divided in 8 groups of 4 Athlete s in the 
Round -robin system .  
 
44. If the coach continues to interfere after first warning, the Referee will stop the bout, 
approach the coach again and as k him/her to leave the tatami.  
45. If AKA  scores just as AO steps outside of the match area, both the score and warning 
or penalty can be given .  
46. If an Athlete  has been physically propelled from the area, Jogai will be giv en. 
47. In Premier League competition the losers to the finalists in the quarter - and semi -
finals compete for the bronze medals . 
48. In cases where there is a tie between two or more Athlete s in a group, having the same 
number of total points, the first criteria to consider is the highest World Ranking at the 
date of the competition . 
49. It is possible for a n Athlete  to be disqualified from a bout (HANSOKU) and continue 
the competition . 
50. An Athlete  who scores and exits the area before the Referee calls YAME  will not 
receive  JOGAI .  
51. Athlete  cannot be given penalties after the time -up bell has signalled the end of a bout.   
52. In Junior competition any technique to the face, head or neck, which causes injury 
will be warned or penalised  unless it is the recipient’s own fault .  
53. In Cadet and Junior competition Jodan kicks are allowed to make the lightest touch  
(“skin touch” ) provided there is no injury.   
54. In Senior competition a light touch is allowed for  JODAN punches,  and a greater 
tolerance is allowed for JODAN  kicks.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
5/17 
55. An already qualified Athlete  cannot be disqualified for misconduct (SHIKKAKU) at 
the end of the Round -robin .  
 
56. If a variation of the competition format other than described in these rules is to be 
applied for a particular tournament, this has to be clearly announced in the tournament 
bulletin . 
57. A bad behaviour  from a coach does not cause a S HIKKAKU  to his/her Athlete  and 
the Athlete  does not need to be expelled from the match/bout.  
58. When the Judges see a score,  they will immediately signal  with joy sticks  or flags .  
59. The referee panel is composed of 1 Tatami Manager, 3 Tatami Manager Assistants . 
60. The Referee Panel for each bout shall consist of one Referee, four Judges and one 
Match Supervisor .  
61. If after the bout has started a n Athlete  is found not to be wearing a gum -shield the 
Athlete  will be disqualified.   
62. The Referee will give all commands and make all announcements.   
63. Duration of the Kumite bout is: 1.5 minutes for under 14 years and younger . 
 
64. If three Judges signal a score for AKA,  the Referee must stop the bout even if he 
believes they are mistaken.   
65. If two or more Judges signal a score for the same Athlete,  the Referee must stop the 
bout.   
66. The timing of a bout starts when the Referee gives the signal to start and stops when 
the Referee calls “ YAME ” or when the time is  up.  
67. The Referee Panel of a K umite bout shall consist of a Referee, four Judges, a Match 
Supervisor  and a Score Keeper .  
68. When a n Athlete  slips and falls down on the floor with the torso not touching the 
Tatami and is immediately scored upon the opponent will be awarded Ippon .  
69. The Athlete ’s coach is the only o nes allowed to make a protest.  
70. If the Referee does not hear the time -up signal the Match Supervisor  will blow the 
whistle.   
71. The Athlete s must only bow properly to each other at the start of the bout .  
 
72. In individual  bouts an Athlete  who withdraws voluntarily from the bout is declared 
KIKEN  and an extra eight points are awarded to the opponent.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
6/17 
73. Awareness is the state of continued commitment, which endures after the technique 
has landed.   
74. If the organizer has a check -up of equipment before line -up, it is still KANSA´S 
responsibility to ensure that the equipment is in accordance with the rules .  
75. An Athlete  who stays within the match area may score on a n Athlete  outside the 
match area.   
76. ATOSHI BARAKU means “ 15 seconds of bout time remaining”.   
77. ATOSHI BARAKU means “1 0 seconds of bout time remaining”.   
78. A “skin touch” to the throat is allowed only in Senior competition.   
79. If there are no points at the end of a bout in team matches the Referee will call for 
HANTEI.  
80. Excessive contact after r epeated failure to block is a consideration for MUBOBI.  
81. An Athlete  may be penalised for exaggeration even  when  there is an actual injury.   
82. The Referee declare the winner; “AO (AKA) NO KACHI”, and if necessary, break 
the tie in case of HANTEI . 
83. In the event of a tied score at the end of an inconclusive bout the Referee Panel (the 
Referee and the four Judges) will decide the bout by HANTEI . 
84. When the Referee Panel has made a decision not in accordance with the Rules of 
Competition, the Match Supervisor  (KANSA) will immediately  blow his whistle .  
85. An Athlete  should not be penalized for being winded (loss of breath as a consequence 
of a technique) or simply reacting to an impact even if the technique merited a point 
by the opponent .  
86. In team matches there is no extra bout .  
87. Only the first correctly executed technique of a combination will score .  
  
88. Athlete s that appear at the competition area with unauthorized equipment or irregular 
Karate -Gi will be given one minute to correct the attire . 
89. Athlete s that are winded as a result of an impact should be allowed time to catch their 
breath before the bout is resumed.  
90. JODAN  is described as the shoulders and the area above the collar bone .  
 
91. IPPON is awarded for JODAN kicks or any techniques against an opponent whose 
any part of the body other than the feet is in contact with the TATAMI.  
92. HANSOKU CHUI will be given  for feigning of injury.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
7/17 
93. HANSOKU will be given for the first instance of exaggerating an injury.   
94. A loss of breath by the recipient of a blow after receiving a CHUDAN technique does 
indicate lack of control . 
95. An Athlete  can be given Hansoku directly for exaggerating the effects of injury .  
96. A technique even if effective, delivered after an order to suspend or halt the bout shall 
not be scored an d may result in a penalty being imposed on the offender .  
97. In Cadet Kumite JODAN  kicks are allowed to make a “skin touch” provided there is 
no injury.   
98. If there is an error in charting and the wrong Athlete s compete this cannot be changed 
afterwards.  
99. An effective technique delivered at the same time as the end of the bout is signalled 
by the buzzer is valid.   
100. If an Athlete  is injured and it is considered to be their own fault  (MUBOBI ), the 
Referee will decline to give a warning or penalty to the opponent.   
101. KANSA has no vote or authority in matters of judgments such as whether a score was 
valid or not .  
102. YUKO  is always awarded for punches on the back .  
103. “Skin touch” is allowed in categories for Athlete s 16 years or older .  
 
104. An Athlete  who does not obey the Referee's orders will be given SHIKKAKU .  
105. The Score Supervisor  will order the Referee to halt the bout when he sees a 
contravention of the Rules of Competition.   
106. If in a combination, the first technique merits a YUKO  and the second merits a 
penalty, both shall be given.   
107. Skin touch is defined as touching the target without transferring energy into the head 
or body . 
108. It is not possible to score while lying on the floor.   
109. An Athlete  not wearing the WKF approved equipment will be given two minute s to 
change for the approved type.   
110. An Athlete  injured in K umite and withdrawn under the ten -second rule may not 
compete in the Kata competition.   
111. An injured Athlete  who has been declared unfit to fight by the Tournament Doctor 
cannot fight again in that competition.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
8/17 
112. If an Athlete  behaves badly on the competition area after the end of the bout or bout, 
the Referee can still give SHIKKAKU .  
113. The Match  Supervisor has a vote in cases of SHIKKAKU .  
114. In Male team matches if a team wins three bouts,  then the match is over at that point.   
115. In Female team matches if a team wins two bouts,  then the match is over at that point.   
116. When a n Athlete  seizes the opponent and does not perform an immediate technique or 
throw the Referee will call “ YAME ”.  
117. When a Judge is not sure that a techniqu e actually reached a scoring are a he may 
signal for the score.  
118. An Athlete  who commits an act which harms the prestige and honour of Karate -Do 
will be given HANSOKU .  
119. When an action of a n Athlete  is considered to be dangerous and deliberately violates 
the rules concerning prohibited behaviour, the Athlete  will be given Shikkaku.   
120. Correctly executed techniques executed after the time -up signal are valid .  
 
121. Correctly executed techniques executed upon or after “WAKARETE” are valid .  
 
122. A point may be signaled even if the Judge cannot see the actual point of impact .  
 
123. At HANTEI  if three Judges signal victory for AKA and the fourth Judge signal s 
victory for AO, the Referee  must give victory for AKA .  
124. Passivity cannot be given to someone having a lead by point or SENSHU .  
  
125. Only the Coach designated for the specific bout is allowed to coach and guide the 
Athlete  from the place allocated to the coach close to the competition area .  
 
126. If an Athlete  does not regain his or her feet within ten seconds, the Referee will 
announce “ KIKEN ” and “ KACHI ” to the opponent.   
127. If an Athlete  is thrown and lands partly outside the match area, the Referee will 
immediately call “ YAME ”.  
128. The Athlete  may not signal to the Coach the wish for him/her to request a video 
review . 
129. The Athlete  should be examined outside the t atami.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
9/17 
130. KANSA has to blow the whistle if the Judge s are holding the joy stick s in the wrong 
hand s.  
131. Gum -shields (mouth guards) are obligatory for all Kumite Athlete s.  
132. After a throw the Referee will allow a maximum of two seconds for a score to be 
made.   
133. If an Athlete  scores with a strong side kick and propels the opponent out of the area, 
the Referee should award WAZA -ARI and give the opponent a warning or penalty for 
Jogai.   
134. When an official protest is lodged the ensuing bouts  must be delayed until the result of 
the protest is given.   
135. Each Judge will be seated in th e corners of the TATAMI  and outside of the safety 
area. 
136. When the Referee awards a point for a technique which has caused injury the Match 
Supervisor  should signal for the bout to be stopped.   
137. When the Referee fails to hear the “time -up” bell the Scorekeeper should blow his 
whistle.   
138. WAKARETE  for breaking up a clinch can be given at any time of the bout .  
 
139. When the Referee wants to give SHIKKAKU  she/he may call the Judges for a brief 
consultation.   
140. When a n Athlete  is injured during a bout in progress and needs medical treatment 
three minutes will be given in which to receive it, after that the Referee will decide 
whether the Athlete  will be declared unfit to fight or whether more time will be given.   
141. An Athlete  who exits the area ( JOGAI ) with less than 15 seconds of bout time 
remaining will be given a minimum of CHUI .  
142. To correct a score given to the wrong Athlete  the Referee should turn towards the 
Athlete  given the score in error, make the sign of TORIMASEN , and then give the 
score to the opponent.   
143. If an Athlete  scores with a well -controlled CHUDAN  Geri, then accidentally punches 
his opponent in the face causing a slight injury, WAZA -ARI and a warning should be 
given.   
144. When an injured Athlete  has been given medical treatment and the Official Doctor 
says that the Athlete  can continue fighting the Referee cannot over -rule the Doctor's 
decision.   
145. The Referee can stop the bout even if the Judges do not signal.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
10/17 
146. Once WAKARETE is called by the Referee the Coaches do not have the opportunity 
to make a video request  unless the techniques happened before WAKARETE was 
called.  
147. “Avoiding Combat” refers to a situation where a n Athlete  attempts to prevent the 
opponent from having the opportunity to scor e by using time wasting behaviour .  
148. TSUZUKTETE, unless preceded by WAKARETE, is not used if there is less than 15 
seconds left of the bout . 
149. In team matches if two Athlete s injure each other and cannot continue and the points 
score is equal the Referee will announce HIKIWAKE .  
150. When there are less than 15  seconds of bout time remaining and a losing Athlete , 
desperately trying to equalise, exits the area ( JOGAI ) they will be given a minimum of 
HANSOKU -CHUI .  
151. Techniques which land below the belt cannot score.   
152. Techniques, which land on the shoulder blade, can score.   
153. If AKA  accidentally kicks AO on the hip and AO cannot continue the bout,  then AO 
will be given KIKEN .  
154. If an Athlete  is obviously out of breath due to lack of endu rance, the Referee should 
stop the  bout to give him time to recover.   
155. An Athlete  who establishes a clear lead of eight points is declared the winner.   
156. When time is up ; the Athlete  who has scored the most points is declared the winner.   
157. An otherwise correctly executed technique will be penalized if executed at the same 
time as WAKARETE has been called .  
 
158. There are two degrees of official warnings .  
 
159. CHUI  is given, up to three times, for smaller infractions .  
 
160. HANSOKU CHUI  cannot be given if three CHUI has not already been given . 
161. A warning or penalty for MUBOBI is only given when a n Athlete  is hit or injured 
through his own fault or negligence.   
162. An Athlete  who is hit through their own fault and exaggerates the effect should 
receive a warning or penalty for MUBOBI  or exaggeration but not both.   
163. If an Athlete  makes a good CHUDAN  kick and the opponent catches the leg a score 
cannot be given.  
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
11/17 
164. An Athlete  makes a  JODAN kick with all six scoring criteria. The opponent puts his 
hand up to intercept the kick and the hand then lightly hits his own face ; the Referee 
can give  IPPON since the kick was not effectively blocked.   
165. A male team can compete with only two Athlete s.  
166. Authorised advertising for WKF is displayed on the left sleeve of the Karate -Gi.  
167. National Federations are not allowed to put advertising on the Athlete ’s Karate -Gi.  
168. A Kumite Athlete  who receives KIKEN  cannot compete again in that tournament.   
169. An extra bout  is used only for team matches.   
170. KANSA needs to blow the whistle if the Referee gives a score to a n Athlete  and 
MUBOBI  to the other.  
171. Serious violation of conduct, discipline, or malicious behavior merits a HANSOKU 
CHUI .  
 
172. In international competitions t he Referee must not have the same nationality as either 
of the Athlete s although one of the Judges can if both coaches agree.   
173. The Match Supervisor  (KANSA) will line up together with the Referee and the 
Judges.   
174. The coaches will be seated outside the safety area, on their respective sides  facing  
towards the official table.   
175. KANSA  does not need to interfere if the Referee gives a score to a n Athlete  and 
exagg eration to the other.  
176. In team matches the referee Panel  will rotate for each bout - provided that all hold the 
required license.   
177. In team matches the Panel will rotate for each bout only in bouts for medals.   
178. The Ref eree can move about the entire t atami including the safety zones.   
179. Female Athlete s must have WKF approved body  protector  female designed .  
180. The red and blue belts must be without any personal embroideries or markings .  
181. When a situation appears to possibly warrant a disqualification the Referee can call 
one or more of judges for a brief consultation ( FUKUSHIN SHUGO) before 
announcing any decision .  
182. Athlete s must wear a white Karate-Gi without  personal embroider y.  
183. Personal embroider y in the Karate -Gi is allowed only in bouts for medals.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
12/17 
184. Where contact is considered by the Referee to be too strong, but does not diminish the 
Athlete ’s chances of winning, a warning (CHUI) can be given . 
185. Any technique, which results in injury, unless caused by the recipient cause a warning 
or penalty . 
186. An obvious overreaction to a contact will receive a CHUI .  
 
187. Judges cannot indicate a score or warning before the Referee stops the bout.   
188. An obvious display of exaggeration will receive a HANSOKU .  
189. Any instance of feigning an injury, whoever slight, will receive a minimum warning 
of CHUI . 
 
190. An obvious display of any feigning such as staggering around, falling on the floor, 
standing up and falling down again, and so on, will receive SHIKKAKU directly .  
 
191. Any feigning of an injury from a technique that in fact have been determined by the 
judges as a point will as a minimum result in HANSOKU CHUI . 
192. If an Athlete  scores with more than one consecutive technique  before YAME , the 
Judges must show the higher point regardless of  which sequence the techniques 
scored .  
193. In team matches, if after the extra bout  there are no scores, or it is equal scores  with 
no SENSHU , the bout will be decided by HANTEI .  
194. JOGAI  occurs when a n Athlete  exits from the competition area,  and it is not caused 
by the opponent.   
195. The minimum warning for running away, avoiding combat or/and wasting time during 
ATOSHI BARAKU is HANSOKU CHUI .  
196. The pivotal point of the throw  must not be above the thrower’s hip level and the 
opponent must be held onto throughout, so that a safe landing can be made .  
197. Holding on to the opponent’s Karate Gi is not permitted to break a fall . 
198. KANSA  does not need to interfere if the Referee gives a score for a technique done 
after the time is up.  
199. YUKO is worth one point.   
200. WAZA -ARI is worth  two points .  
201. IPPON is worth  three points .  
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
13/17 
202. It is the duty of the Match Supervisor  to ensure before each bout or bout that the 
Athlete s are wearing the approved equipment.   
203. It is the duty of the Tatami Manager to ensure before each bout or bout that the 
Athlete s are wearing the approved equipment.   
204. Coaches must present their accreditation together with that of their Athlete  or team to 
the official table .  
205. WAZA -ARI is awarded for CHUDAN  Kicks.   
206. IPPON  is awarded for JODAN GERI and scoring techniques which are delivered on 
an opponent who has been thrown, has fallen o n their own accord, or is otherwise off 
their feet .  
207. Individual bouts can not be declared a tie.   
208. Passivity can be given to any Athlete  at any time . 
209. Passivity cannot be given during the first 15 seconds of a bout . 
210. Simulated attacks with the head, knees, or elbows are offense s.  
211. Avoiding combat during the last 15 seconds of the bout (ATO SHIBARAKU) will as 
a minimum result in HANSOKU CHUI and loss of SENSHU . 
212. The Head Coach of a delegation can protest about a judgment  to the members of the 
Refereeing Panel.   
213. In a Kumite Tatami two mats are inverted with the red side turned up in a one meter 
distance from the mat centre to form a boundary between the Athlete s.  
214. Jacket ties must be tied .  
215. At the beginning of a bout Jackets without ties can  be used.  
216. In individual competition a n Athlete  may be replaced by another after the drawing has 
taking place.   
217. At medal bouts  male coaches are required to wear a dark suit, shirt , tie and shoes 
covering the toes.  
218. At medal bouts  female Coaches may choose to wear a dress, pantsuit or a combination 
of jacket and skirt in dark colours  and shoes covering the toes.  
219. At medal bouts  female coaches cannot wear religious headwear.  
220. An Athlete  that refuses following the instructions of the Referee or display a loss of 
temper will automatically receive HANSOKU . 
221. Athlete s are not entitled to a period of time between bouts , equal to the standard 
duration time of the bout, for purpose of rest.  
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
14/17 
222. Passivity cannot be g iven after less than the last 15  seconds of the  bout.   
    
223. Any excessive celebration, such as falling on one’s knees etc., political,  or religious 
expressions, during or immediately after the bout or match, are prohibited and may be 
subject to a fine equal to the protest fee determined by EC   
224. If an Athlete  receives KIKEN, or SHIKKAKU, in Round -robin competition all 
previous bouts are voided from the result.  
      
225. Grabbing the opponent’s  arm or Karate-GI with one hand is only allowed  for   
              attempting  an immediately scoring technique or takedown.    
             
226. Grabbing the opponen t with both hands is never allowed  during the bout.  
227. It is the Tatami Manager’s duty to appoint the video review Judge .  
228. Should the number of IPPON and WAZA ARI be equal, the decision will be made  by 
HANTEI . 
 
229. In any individual bout, with equal score, and no SENSHU  by either Athlete , the first 
criteria of the decision will be made based on the higher number of IPPON  scored in 
the bout . 
230. If one Athlete  has a score indicated by more than one Judge and the score is different 
between the Judges, the higher will be applied , unless there is majority for a lower 
score.  
231. The Tatami Manager must notify the central table when a n Athlete  has been stopped 
from further competition based on the 10 -second rule . 
232. The timekeeper is responsible for starting the 3 -minute count for a n Athlete  who is 
injured during a bout in progress and requires medical treatment.  
 
233. The Referee will not call YAME  when a n Athlete  seizes the opponent and does not 
perform  an immediate technique or throw.    
234. The Referee indicates the winner by hand signal and the order (AKA/AO NO 
KACHI), and by this action also resolve any tie . 
235. When a n Athlete  seizes the opponent,  the Referee will give several seconds for the 
Athlete  to perform a throw or technique.   
236. The Coach / NF representative will request the official protest from the Tatami 
Manager .  
 
237. The Referee can stop the bout and give a point without the Judges opinion.   
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
15/17 
238. If the referee does not call the doctor in  a 10 second rule situation, Kansa  must blow  
the w histle. 
239. The winning team is the one with the most bout victori es excluding those won by 
SENSHU .  
240. The red and blue belts must be no longer than three -quarters thigh length.   
241. Failure of a Coach / NF representative to deliver a protest in a timely manner can lead 
to its rejection . 
 
242. The correct penalty for feigning an injury when the judges have determined that the 
technique in fact was a score is HANSOKU .   
243. The information of officials implicated in the protest is completed by the Tatami 
Manager .  
244. Disqualification by KIKEN  means that the Athlete  is disqualified from that category, 
although it does not affect participation in another category.    
245. Athlete s are entitled to a rest period of time between bouts, equal to the standard 
duration time of the bout. The exception is in the case of change of equipment color, 
where this time is extended to five minutes.   
246. In any bout, if after full time the scores are equal, b ut one Athlete  has obtained “ first 
unopposed score advantage” ( SENSHU ), that Athlete  will be declared the winner.  
  
247. By “first un opposed score advantage” ( SENSHU ) is understood that one Athlete  has 
achieved the first instance of scoring on the opponent without having the opponent 
also score before the signal.   
248. Where both Athlete s score before the signal, no “first unopposed score advantage”  is 
awarded and both Athlete s retain the possibility of SENSHU  later in the bout.   
249. In the event that a n Athlete  falls, is thrown, or knocked down and does not regain his 
or her feet immediately, the Referee will call the doctor, and at the same time start a 
count to ten indicating his count showing a finger for each second.   
250. An audible signal will be given by the timekeeper 15 seconds before the actual end of 
the bout and the Referee will announce “ ATOSHI BARAKU”.    
251. Kansa  must remain silent if the referee gives a warning or penalty for p assivity during 
ATOSHI BARAKU.  
252. In individu al categories  with elimination format,  a bout can be declared a tie.   
253. For all competition formats  the Coach will be allowed one video review card for the 
Athlete . 
  
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
16/17 
254. For Round -robin in groups of four the Coach will be allowed one VR card for each 
participant in the round -robin phase.  
 
255. The Athlete  may ask the Coach to request a video review discretely.  
 
256. The video review can be requested by the Coach in instances where the Judges 
awarded a lower score than, in the opinion of the Coach, should be for a higher 
scoring technique.  
 
257. The Video Review Judge  may only award points if scoring before or simultaneously 
with the other Athlete .  
 
258. The last 6 seconds before the bout was stopped for the request will always be 
evaluated for Video Review.  
 
259. If both Coaches request video review at the same time, the Video review Judge  may 
only award the point to whoever is deemed to score first.   
 
260. Simultaneous scoring techniques can be awarded to both Athlete s in Video Review.  
 
261. The Video Review Judge  may not overrule any decision made by the corner judges 
with the exception of SENSHU.  
 
262. Tatami manager must supervise that KANSA stops the bout to instruct the Referee 
regarding a contravention of the Rules of Competition.  
 
263. Referee indicates fouls observed, and imposes  warning and penalties as required by 
the rules.  
  
264. Referee breaks the tie in case of HANTEI.  
 
265. it is always KANSA´ S responsibility to ensure that the equipment is in accordance 
with the rules before each bout . 
 
266. In the event that the Referee does not hear the time -up bell,  KANSA will blow his 
whistle.  
  
267. In two judging systems , the Judges will assist the Referee by giving signals for 
JOGAI, excessive contact, and skin touch for categories where this contravenes the 
rules.  
 
268. In two judging system s, the Referee remains  autonomous in applying warnings and 
penalties.  
 
World Karate Federation  
 
 
 
Kumite Examination Questions.  Version  1st December 2025  
17/17 
269. In two judging systems,  if the two Judges, or one Judge and the Referee, show 
different points for the same Athlete , the higher will be given.  
 
 
