                                  WORLD KARATE FEDERATION  
    REFEREEE COMMISSION  
 
 
   Information to all WKF Candidates, Referees  and Judges  
                                                     
1. Kata & Kumite Candidates must be at least 25 years old  and be a min . 2nd WKF Dan Grade.   
The National Federations may nominate their country’s citizens as candidates to the WKF Referee 
course. Candidates must be qualified National Kumite Refe ree-A or National Kata Judge -A and  must be 
registered Online through  the WKF software provider at least 60 days before the  start of the Course or 
face a fine or other penalties as decided by the E xecutive Committee . 
 
2. Provided that an official keeps his/her license up to date, attends the annual  WKF World 
Championships (providing compliance with the regulations established for that year) at least once every 
four  (4) years,  attends the pre -championship s briefing and lecture, and officiates satisfactorily then they 
will not be expected to undergo another practical examination, although they must sit and pass the 
theory examination  which will be presented prior to the Championships  Briefing, once in every four  (4)  
years.  
 
3. All Judges and Referees must renew (pay) their licences every four years. All current officials are 
required to be paid up to date with the WKF Treasury. Officials that do not pay the license renewal  by 
the end of the year that the payment is due will not be able to officiate as WKF Judges/Referees until the 
payment is satisfied. Officials of countries in debt to WKF may not participate in WKF Championships or 
courses.  
 
4. WKF Referees and Judges officiating in a WKF event cannot perform another function in that event 
unless authorized by WKF and are strictly warned against interacting with coaches and contestants 
during competitions in progress. Regardless of the place or circumstances, WKF Referees and Judges are 
not either allowed to appear in photos/videos together with coaches and contestants when wearing the 
official uniform. Referees and Judges violating this vital norm of conduct and Fair Play may face 
suspension from all WKF official events for a period to be determined.  
 
5. Referees and Judges are also strictly advised not to  publish content on any social media platforms with 
information that violates the privacy and integrity of other WKF members and the discretion of internal 
information. Referees and Judges violating this norm of privacy will face suspension from future 
appointments.  
 
6. The terms Referees and Judges in this information  refers to all National, Continental and World 
Referees and Judges. Furthermore, WKF events in this paragraph refer not only to official WKF events 
but also to all events under the WKF umbrella.  
 
7. All Refereeing officials are required to submit their licences to the Referee Commission at all WKF 
events. Th e licence duly signed and validated will allow the official to attend all official activities  and 
events  of the WKF.  
                   1/2 
 
8. Referees & Judges officiating in a WKF event must not have the nationality of either of the participants 
during Kumite bouts and Kata medal bouts . All Officials must in principle have residence in the country 
they represent and be exclusively affiliated through the NF of their country of residence. Exceptions to 
this must be approved by the NF in which the individual has citizenship and will be subject to the final 
approval of WKF EC.  
    
 
UNIFORM  
Referees and Judges must wear the official uniform designated by the Executive Committee. This 
Uniform must be worn at all Briefings, Seminars, Courses and Competitions.  
 
The official uniform will be as follows:  
• A single -breasted navy -blue blazer  (Colour code 19 -4023 TPX).  
• Plain light -grey trousers without turn -ups (Colour code Pantone 18 -0201 TPX).  
• A white shirt with short sleeves.  
• An official tie, worn without tiepin.  
• Plain dark blue or black socks and black slip -on shoes for use on the Tatami . 
• A black whistle with a discreet white cord.  
• Referees and Judges may wear a hairclip , a plain wedding band, discreet earrings and voluntary 
religious headwear that is WKF approved . 
 
For Female Officials the following additional specifications are made:  
Hair must be worn off the shoulders.  
Make -up must be discreet.  
Heels of more than 6 cm may not be worn with the uniform.  
 
Games and multisport events  
For Olympic Games, Youth Olympic Games, Continental Games,  and other multisport events where a 
cross -sport uniform is provided for Referees at the cost of the LOC with the feel & look of the specific 
event, the official uniform for Referees might be substituted by that common uniform, provided that it is 
requested in writing to the WKF by the event organiser and formally approved by the WKF.  
 
 
Revised version JE/ 24th January  2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                  2/2 
