Rules Version  2026.0  - 1 -  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WORLD KARATE FEDERATION  
KATA  COMPETITION RULES  
     Valid from 1.1.202 6 
 
 
  

Rules Version  2026.0  - 2 - CONTENT  
INTRODUCTION  - 3 - 
ARTICLE 1:  KATA COMPETITION AREA  - 3 - 
ARTICLE 2:  OFFICIAL ATTIRE  - 4 - 
ARTICLE 3:  ORGANISATION OF KATA COMPETITION  - 8 - 
ARTICLE 4:  THE JUDGING PANEL  - 13 - 
ARTICLE 5:  EVALUATION  - 14 - 
ARTICLE 6:  OPERATION OF MATCHES  - 19 - 
ARTICLE 7:  OFFICIAL PROTEST  - 20 - 
ARTICLE  8: ELIGIBILITY TO COMPETE  - 23 - 
ARTICLE 9:  LOCAL ADAPTATION OF RULES  - 25 - 
ARTICLE 10:  ISSUES NOT SPECIFICALLY COVERED BY THE RULES  - 26 - 
APPENDIX 1:  OFFICIAL KATA LIST - 27 - 
APPENDIX 2:  KATA COMPETITION CATEGORIES  - 28 - 
APPENDIX 3:  KATA PROTEST FORM  - 29 - 
APPENDIX 4:  SUMMARY TABLE OF WINNING CRITERIA AND TIE RESOLUTION  - 30 - 
 
 
 
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 3 -  
INTRODUCTION  
 
The purpose of the Kata  Rules is to provide standardized rules for all levels of Championships promoted 
or recognized by the World Karate Federation (WKF), WKF Continental Federations, and WKF Member 
National Federations. The Competition Rules are intended to ensure that all matt ers related to 
competitions are conducted in a safe, fair, and orderly manner.  
 
 
ARTICLE 1:  KATA  COMPETITION AREA  
 
1.1 The competition area will be a WKF Approved matted square, with sides of eight metres (measured from the outside). There will be a clear safety area of two metres on each side.   
 
1.2 The Judges sit behind a table facing the middle of the tatami having AO to the left and AKA to 
the right.  
 
1.3 There must be no advertisement hoardings, walls, pillars etc. within one metre of the safety 
area's outer perimeter.  
 
1.4 Coaches will be seated outside the safety area, on their respective sides of the Tatami towards the official table. In cases where the configuration of Tatami makes it impractical to 
place the Coaches facing the official table, they may instead be placed o n each side of the 
official table.  
 
1.5 The following illustration shows placement around the competition area.  
 
  

Rules Version  2026.0  - 4 -  
ARTICLE 2:  OFFICIAL ATTIRE  
 
2.1  Judges  
 
2.1.1  The official uniform will be as follows:  
a) A single -breasted navy -blue blazer (colour code 19 -4023 TPX)  
b) Plain light -grey trousers without turn -ups (colour code 18 -0201 TPX)  
c) A white shirt with short sleeves  
d) Plain dark blue or black socks and black slip -on shoes for use on the match area  
e) An official tie, worn without a tie pin 
f) A black whistle with a discreet white cord for the whistle  
 
2.1.2  The following additions to attire are allowed:  
a) A plain wedding band  
b) Voluntary religious  headwear approved by the WKF  
c) A hairclip and discreet earrings  
d) Hair must be worn off the shoulders , and make-up must be discreet  
e) Heels of more than 4  cm may not be worn with the uniform.  
 
It is strictly forbidden for judges to use phones, wear smart -watches or make use of private 
electronic devices within the confines of the field of play . Sunglasses are not allowed.  
 
2.1.3 Judges must wear the official uniform at all tournaments, briefings, and courses.  
 
2.1.4  For multisport events where a cross -sport uniform is provided for Judges at the cost of the LOC 
(local Organising Committee) with the feel & look of the specific event. T he official uniform for 
Judges might be substituted by that common uniform, provided that it is requested in writing 
to the WKF by the event organiser and formally approved by the WKF.  
 
2.1.5 If the Chief Referee  agrees, officials may be allowed to remove their blazers.  
 
2.1.6 The Referee Commission or Chief Referee may refuse the participation of any official who does 
not comply with this regulation.  
 
2.2 Athlete s 
 2.2.1  Athletes must wear a white, WKF approved, Karategi without stripes, piping,  or personal 
embroidery other than specifically allowed by the WKF EC and specified in the bulletin for the competition : 
 
a) For all official WKF events (World Championships and Karate 1 -  Premier League, Series A 
and Youth League), the Karategi must have embroidered brands on the shoulders in red 
or blue , respectively,  according to the draw . Exceptions include the grand winners of the 
previous Premier League season who should wear a gold  shoulder  embroidery  in current 
Premier League events and the incumbent Senior World Champion, who should wear a 
gold shoulder embroidery  in the current Senior World Championship .  This applies e qually 
to individuals and teams. T here is no WKF requirement for the Team  members wearing 
the same brand of Karategi.  
 
Rules Version  2026.0  - 5 - b) Only the original manufacturer’s labels can  be displayed on the Karategi.  
 
 
c) The national emblem or flag of the country will be worn on the left breast of the jacket 
and may not exceed an overall size of 12cm by 8cm.  
d) In addition, identification issued by the Organising Committee will be worn on the back.   
The back number is mandatory for Karate 1 – Premier League, Karate World 
Championships and Karate World Cup.   
 
e) Athletes or Team s must wear a WKF Approved red  belt (AKA ), or blue belt (AO) as allocated  
by the draw , without any personal embroideries or advertising or markings (BRAND LOGO) 
other than the customary label from the manufacturer. Belts of grade cannot be worn 
during the bout .  

Rules Version  2026.0  - 6 - f) The red and blue belts must be around five centimetres wide and of a length sufficient to 
allow fifteen centimetres free on each side of the knot but not longer than three- quarters 
thigh length . 
g) The jacket, when tightened around the waist with the belt, must be of a minimum length 
that covers the hips, but must not be more than three -quarters thigh length . 
h) Female Athletes can wear a plain white T -shirt beneath the Karate jacket.  
i) Jackets without ties cannot  be used. The jacket ties holding the jacket in place must be 
tied at the beginning of the perform ance.  
j) The maximum length of the jacket sleeves must be no longer than the bend of the wrist 
and no shorter than halfway down the forearm.  
k) Jacket sleeves may not be rolled up.  
l) The trousers must be long enough to cover at least two thirds of the shin and must not 
reach below the anklebone. Trouser legs may not be rolled up.  
m) The Karategi must not be altered or manipulated to change its shape.  
 
2.2.2 The WKF Executive Committee may authorise the display of special labels or trademarks (BRAND LOGOS) of approved sponsors.  
 
2.2.3 Athletes may, according to their own individual choice, use religious headwear approved by the WKF : A black plain fabric head scarf covering the hair, but not the neck or throat area.  
 2.2.4 Glasses are forbidden. Prescription sport -glasses or s oft contact lenses can be worn at the 
Athlete's own risk.  
 
2.2.5 Athletes must keep their hair clean and cut to a length that does not obstruct the performance . 
Hachimaki (headband) will not be allowed.  
 
2.2.6 Hair slides are prohibited, as are metal hairgrips. Ribbons, beads and other decorations are 
prohibited. One or two discreet rubber bands on a single ponytail is permitted.  

Rules Version  2026.0  - 7 -  
2.2.7 The wearing of any unauthorised apparel, clothing or equipment is forbidden.  
 
2.2.8 The use of bandages, padding, or supports because of injury, must be approved by the Referee 
and done, or approved by, the Tournament Doctor.  
 
2.2.9 In the case of Continental Federations, they will limit themselves to providers and brands 
already approved for WKF. National Federation must also accept all WKF approved equipment 
for all local, regional or national competitions.  
 
2.2.10 Athletes that appear at the competition area with unauthorized equipment or irregular 
Karategi will be given one  minute to correct the attire, and the Coach based on the report from 
the Chief Referee may have their  coaching license suspended for a period of up to 6 months 
starting the date after the applicable tournament unless the equipment and attire has been 
checked  beforehand by a WKF Controller.  
 2.3  Coaches  
  
2.3.1  Coaches must at all times during the tournament, wear the official tracksuit of their National 
Federation, wear shoes, and display their official identification. The exception is 
bouts/matches for medals in official WKF events, where male Coaches are required to wear a 
dark suit, shoes covering the feet, shirt and tie. Female Coaches may choose to wear a dress, pantsuit,  or a combination of jacket and skirt in dark colours and shoes. Sandals, or any other 
open -toe shoes, are prohibited.  Sunglasses are not allowed.  
 
2.3.2  The following additions to attire are allowed:  
a) A plain wedding band  
b) Voluntary religious headwear approved by the WKF  
 
2.3.3 The Chief Referee can allow Coaches to use the federations official Team t -shirt or a plain 
coloured t -shirt without writing or logos instead of the track suit jacket.  
   
Rules Version  2026.0  - 8 - ARTICLE 3:  ORGANISATION OF KATA  COMPETITION  
 
3.1 General  
 
3.1.1 Kata is not a dance or theatrical performance. It must adhere to the traditional values and 
principles. It must be realistic in fighting terms and display concentration, power, and potential 
impact in its techniques. It must demonstrate strength, power, an d speed , as well as grace, 
rhythm, and balance.  
 
3.1.2 All Kata competition take the form of pitting one Athlete against another or one Team against 
another  (One -on-one competition). The individual Athletes or Teams are designated as AKA 
(red) and AO (blue). The designation of colour is done by random drawing.   
 
3.1.3 The Athlete or Team designated as AKA will perform first.  
 
3.1.4 Athletes must at all times follow the instructions given by the Chief Judge.  
 3.2 Definitions  
 3.2.1 A “bout ” refers to the performance of one kata by one Athlete  versus another.  
 
3.2.2 A “match” refers  to the performance of one kata, including Bunkai for medal matches, by one 
Kata Team  versus another .  
 3.2.3 The term “group” is here used about  the Athlete s participating in one of the eight or more 
groups in the Round- robin  phase for individual competition or the group of five Team s 
participating in Round- robin  Team  competition.  
 
3.2.4 The term “pool” is used for each of the two halves of the total number of Athlete s in a 
category forming the two paths of advancement towards competing for the medals.  
 
3.2.5 A “runner -up” refers to the second place Athlete in a Round- robin group.  
 
3.3 Competition formats   
 
3.3.1 Kata  competition  can be organised in several ways : 
 
a) Elimination system with repechage  for individuals or Team s. (Used unless other wise  
specified for the competition ).  
b) Round -robin  in groups followed by elimination  for individuals or Team s. (Used for  
individual  Premier League competitions  and the Senior World Championships  for both 
individuals and Team s). 
c) Two -pool Round -robin  system  (used for multiple sport games)  
 
3.3.2 Kata  competition takes the form of Team  matches and individual bouts. Team  matches consist 
of competition between Team s of 3 or 4 Athletes of which 3 compete at the time . Each Team  
is exclusively male, or exclusively female. The Individual Kata  competition consists of individual 
performance in separate male and female divisions. The list of official categories is found in APPENDIX 2. If a variation of the competition format other than described in these rules is to 
Rules Version  2026.0  - 9 - be applied for a particular tournament, this must be clearly announced in the tournament 
bulletin.  
 
3.4 Seeding  and order of performance.  
 3.4.1 For World Individual Championships  – Phase 2, and Karate 1 - Premier League, the four  top 
ranked Athletes in the WKF World Ranking present as per the day before the competition are 
seeded.   
 
3.4.2  For World Senior Team Championships the 3 medallist Teams (gold, silver and bronze) plus the 
loser of the bronze from the previous World Senior Team Championships will be seeded.  
 
3.5 Team  kata  
 
3.5.1 Kata Team s consist of 3 or 4 Athletes, of which 3 compete in each round. When a Team  has 4 
Athletes,  any 3 may be used for any  round .  
 
3.5.2 In Team  Kata , all three Team  members must start the Kata  facing in the same direction and 
towards the Judges .  
 
3.5.3 The members of the Team  must demonstrate competence in all aspects of the Kata  
performance, as well as synchronisation.  
 3.5.4 In the bouts for medals of Team  Kata  Competition, the Team s will perform their chosen Kata  
in the usual way. They will then perform a demonstration of the meaning of the Kata  (Bunkai ).  
 3.5.5 There is no  bow between the Kata  and the Bunkai . Both elements are part of the same 
performance.  
 3.5.6 The total time allowed for the Kata  & Bunkai  demonstration combined is 5 minutes.  
 3.5.7 The official timekeeper will start the countdown clock as the Team  members perform the bow 
upon starting the Kata  and will stop the clock at the final bow after the Bunkai  performance.  
 
3.5.8 Playing unconscious while performing Bunkai is inappropriate: After being downed the Athlete  
should either raise to one knee or stand up  within 2 seconds . 
 
3.5.9 Although performing a scissor takedown technique to the neck (Kani Basami) area during 
BUNKAI is prohibited, a scissor takedown to the body or legs is permitted.  
 
3.6 Elimination with repechage  
 
3.6.1 In elimination with re pechage the Athletes/ Team s are divided in two pools where in each pool 
the Athletes/ Team s are pitted against each other until the winner of each pool qualify for the 
finals. Those who lost to the two finalists will then form two new pools and compete until there are two Athletes/ Team s left in each pool to compete against each other for the two 
bronze medals.  
 
3.7 Round- robin  groups followed by elimination – Individual s and Team s 
 
Rules Version  2026.0  - 10 - 3.7.1 The Athletes or Team s will face each other in performing a Kata  of their choice. For 
team medal matches , the Bunkai will follow as an integrated part of the performance.  
  
3.7.2 In individual Premier League events, Round -robin  competition using groups of 4 
Athletes  the maximum 32 participants are divided in to 8 groups of 4  Athletes or less . 
The winner of each of the eight groups go es on to regular quarterfinals, semi- finals 
and final. The losers to the finalists in the quarter-  and semi -finals compete for the 
bronze medals. While in the Individual World Senior Championship Phase 2 , the 
winner s and runners -up of each of the 8 groups go on to the regular round 16, 
quarterfinals, semi- finals and final. The losers to the finalists in the quarter-  and semi -
finals compete for the bronze medals.  
 
3.7.3 In Phase 1 of the Individual World Championships  for the Round -robin  competition 
the Athletes are divided in 6, 8, 12, or 24 groups according to the number of registered 
Athletes and the winners and  best  runners -ups of each group will form 6 pairs 
competing for the 6 places qualifying for the Phase 2 of the World Individual 
Championships.   
 
3.7.4 For the World Cup for National Teams, competition begins with a round -robin group 
stage, followed by quarter- finals, semi- finals, and the final. Each group consists of 
five teams. The winner s and runners -up of each group advance to the quarter -finals, 
with winners moving on to the semi -finals and then the final.  
 
Teams that lose in the semi -finals compete for a single bronze medal. The final 
determines the gold and silver medalists: the winner earns gold, the runner -up silver. 
The winner of the bronze medal match secures bronze, while the losing team does not 
recei ve a medal.  
 
3.7.5 The winner and runners -up of each pool is determined by the most won 
bout s/matches . If the number of win s should be equal , the tie will be resolved 
according to Article 5 .  
 3.7.6 In individual  competition t hose who have lost to the finalists in the quarter finals and 
semi -finals will compete for the bronze medals (One for group 1 -4 and one for group 
5-8). For Team s competition t hose Team s that have lost for the finalist will compete 
for the one bron ze medal.   
 3.7.7 In Round -robin , it is possible for a Athlete  or Team  to be disqualified from a 
performance and still continue the competition, completing outstanding performances for the Round -robin  part of the competition. In this case, the opponent  
wins that performance, and the results of the other bout s or matches  remain.
 
 3.7.8 If an already qualified individual athlete or Team is disqualified for misconduct 
(SHIKKAKU) at the conclusion of the Round -robin phase, their scheduled opponent in 
the first round of the elimination  phase shall advance to the next round by bye 
(“walkover”).  
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 11 - 3.7.9 The following table shows allocation to groups for 32 down to 3 Athletes and 
determination of qualification from the Round- robin  according to the next round : 
 
Number of Athlete s/Groups  Athlete s per group  Notes  
8 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation: 24 -32 Athlete s 
Seed ►  3  2  4  1  
32 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 
The first of each Group qualify.  31 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 
30 4 4 4 3 4 4 4 3 
29 4 3 4 3 4 4 4 3 
28 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 
27 4 3 4 3 3 3 4 3 
26 3 3 4 3 3 3 4 3 
25 3 3 3 3 3 3 4 3 
24 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 
6 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation: 18-23 Athlete s 
Seed ►  3  2  4  1  
23 4 4 
 4 4 4 
 3 
The first of each Group and the two best runner -ups qualify.  22 4 4 3 4 4 3 
21 4 3 3 4 4 3 
20 4 3 3 4 3 3 
19 4 3 3 3 3 3 
18 3 3 3 3 3 3 
5 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation: 17 Athlete s 
Seed ►  3  2  4  1  
17  3  3 4 4  3 The first of each Group and the three best runner -ups qualify.  
4 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation: 12 -16 Athlete s 
Seed ►  3  2  4  1  
16 
 4 
 4 
 4 
 4 
The first and runner -up of each Group.  15 4 4 4 3 
14 4 3 4 3 
13 3 3 4 3 
12 3 3 3 3 
3 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation: 9 -11 Athlete s 
Seed ►  3  2  1  
11 
 4 
 4 
 3 The first and runner -up of each Group, as well as the best two number 
threes qualify.  10 4 3 3 
9 3 3 3 
2 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation: 6 -8 Athlete s 
Seed ►  2  1  
8 
 4 
 4 The first and runner -up of each Group, will compete directly in the 
semifinals.  7 4 3 
6 3 3 
1 Group  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation: 3 -5 Athlete s 
Seed ►  1  
5 
 5 Final between first and runner -up of the Group, and only one bronze 
medal bout.  4 4 
3 3 
 
3.7.1 0 Should both Athletes , or teams , be disqualified for a technical mistake  during a medal 
bout/match , they will both  perform an additional kata to determine the result . If this pertains 
to teams, no Bunkai will be required. 
 
3.8 Two pool Round- robin  competition  
 
3.8.1 For multiple sport games , such as continental games, Olympic Games, or other multisport 
events , the format of competition will be determined for each event depending on modalities 
included and restriction in participation.  
 
3.9 Kata competition for those under 14 years of age  
 
There are no specific deviations from the standard rules, but a limitation to the Kata  list to less 
advanced Kata  may be used.  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 12 - 3.10  Coaching  
 
3.10.1  In World Championships, Kata coaches need to be part of a National Federation delegation and have the required Coach certification level, when acting during the bout of a n Athlete.  
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 13 -  
ARTICLE 4:  THE JUDGING PANEL  
 
4.1 For all official WKF competitions , the panel of seven  Judges for each round of Round -robin 
competition, and five judges for eliminations will be designated by random selection , 
deploying a computer program.  
 4.2 For each mat , one Judge  is designated as the Tatami Manager  and will assume the lead in 
conducting any required communication with the Software technician  and handle any 
unanticipated issue among the Judges . 
 4.3 Judges -deployment and panel allocation for the eliminatory rounds : The RC Secretary will 
facilitate to the Software technician  handling the electronic drawing system a list containing 
the Judges  available per Tatami . This list is done by the RC Secretary once the Athletes draw is 
finished and at the end of the Referees ’ briefing. This list must only contain Judges  present at 
the briefing and must comply with the above -mentioned  criteria. Then for the Judges ’ draw 
the Software  Technician will enter the list in the system and  seven  Judges  out of each Tatami  
deployment will be randomly  selected as  judging panel.  
 4.4 For medal bout s the Tatami  Managers will provide the RC Chairman and the RC Secretary with 
a list con taining available officials from their own Tatami  after the last performance  of the 
eliminatory round is finished. Once the list is approved by the RC Chairman , it will be given to  
the Software Technician for entry  into the system.  The system will then randomly allocate the 
Judging panel, which will only contain the seven  Judges.  
 4.5 In addition to the Software Technician , and the A nnouncer of results - for Team  competitions , 
the panel for medal rounds  are also assisted by a Timekeeper  keeping track of the maximum 
performance time.  
 
4.6 As found expedient , the Announcer and the Software Technician  opera ting the electronic 
judging system may be the same person.  
 
4.7 Furthermore,  the organi sers have to  provide Runners for each competition area familiar with 
the WKF Kata  list to collect and record the chosen Kata  of the Athletes before each round and 
bring the listing to the Software technician . The Tatami  Manager  is responsible for oversee ing 
the operation of the Runner(s).  
 
4.8 The Judges of a Kata bout must not have the nationality or be from the same National Federation of either of the participants or have any other conflict of interest. It remains the duty of any official to self- report on any possible conflict of interest be fore the bout or match 
starts.  
 4.9 If manual judging by flags is  employed, five Judges will be used:  four placed at each corner of 
the Tatami and one functioning as Head Judge  centered  at the side closest to the official table.    
   
Rules Version  2026.0  - 14 - ARTICLE 5:  EVALUATION   
 
5.1 Official Kata  list 
 
5.1.1  Only Kata  from the WKF official Kata  list may be performed . The official kata list is found in 
APPENDIX  1. 
 
5.1.2 Names of some Kata  are duplicated due to the variations customary in spelling in 
Romanization. In several instances a Kata  may be known under a different name from style 
(Ryu-ha) to style - and in exceptional instances an identical name may in fact be a different 
Kata  from style to style.  
 
5.2 Number of Kata required 
 5.2.1  An Athlete  or Team must  perform a different kata , up to 5,  for each round  until the  medal 
matches.  No more than five (5) different kata are required to complete a competition , and a 
kata cannot be performed twice in a row.  No kata can be performed more than twice by an 
Athlete or Team in a competition.  Any kata may be performed in the medal round, unless 
already performed twice.  
 5.2.2  For competition for those under 14 years of age no more than four (4) kata is required, and 
above rule of repetition will apply from the fifth round with further repetitions allowed along the same principle for subsequent rounds.  
 5.2.3  Each Athlete/Team are free to select which kata to use for each round provided that the 
relevant kata is announced for each round and follow the above rules from repetition. The 
possibility of repeating kata is an opinion and do not prevent any Athlete  or Team to perform 
a new kata for each round regardless of the number of rounds required to win.  
 
5.3 Assessment  
 5.3.1 The performance is evaluated from the bow starting the Kata until the bow ending the Kata except for team medal matches, where the performance, as well as the timekeeping starts at 
the bow in the beginning of the Kata and ends when the performers bow after  completing the 
Bunkai.  
 
5.3.2 Slight variation as taught by the Athlete’s style (Ryu -Ha) of Karate will be permitted.  
  
5.4 Point system  
 5.4.1 Each p erformance is given a score using a scale from 5.0 to 10.0 in increments of 0.1 -  where 
5.0 represents the lowest score possible for a Kata that is accepted as performed -  and 10.0 
represents a perfect performance. A disqualification is indicated by a 0.0 score.   
 5.4.2 The winner is pointed out by each judge based on the relative mark s that particular judge gave 
for each of the two  Athletes  or Teams . The winner is determined by the majority of votes by 
the Judges.  
 
Rules Version  2026.0  - 15 -  
 
 
5.4.3 Bunkai  is performed for Team medal matches and is to be given equal importance as the  Kata  
itself.  
 
5.5 Decision  
 
5.5.1 Results of a bout or match are decided based on the majority of  votes by  the judges.  
 5.5.2 For each bout/match won in Round -robin , the Athlete/Team earn s 3 Victory points  and the 
loser zero victory points .  No draw s are   allowed .   
 
5.5.3 For the purpose of uniform application of the scale used in scoring the following guideline applies:  
 10  Perfect    
 9 - 9.9 Excellent  
 8 - 8.9 Very good   
 7 - 7.9 Good    
 6 - 6.9 Acceptabl e 
 5 - 5.9 Insufficient  
 0  Disqualified  
 
5.6 Criter ia for evaluation 
 
Kata  Performance  Bunkai  Performance  
(Applicable  to Team  performances  for medals)  
 
1. Stances  
2. Techniques  
3. Transitional movements  
4. Timing  and synchroni sation  
5. Correct breathing  
6. Focus ( KIME ) 
7. Conformance:  Consistence in the 
performance of the KIHON  
8. Strength  
9. Speed  
10. Balance  
  
1. Stances  
2. Techniques  
3. Transitional movements  
4. Timing & distance (M A-AI) 
5. Control  
6. Focus ( KIME ) 
7. Conformance (to Kata ): Using the actual 
movements as performed in the Kata . 
8. Strength  
9. Speed  
10. Balance  
 
AKA NAME  
AO NAME  KATA  NAME  
KATA NAME  FLAG  
FLAG  CATEGORY NAME  AND ROUND  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 16 -  
  5.7 Fouls  
 
The following fouls, if apparent, must be considered:  
 1. Announcing the kata before , instead of after , the bow.  
 
2. Minor loss of balance . 
 3. Performing a movement in an incorrect or incomplete manner such as failure to fully execute a block or punching off target.  
 4. Asynchronous movements, such as delivering a technique before the body transition is 
completed, or in the case of Team  Kata ; failing to do a movement in unison.  
 
5. Use of audible cues (from any other person, including other Team  members)  to guide 
tempo of performance.  
 
6.  Any t heatrics such as stamping the feet, slapping the chest, arms, or Karategi , or 
inappropriate exhalatio n must be considered very serious fouls by the Judges in their 
evaluation of the performance of the Kata  – on the same level as one would penalize a 
major loss of balance.  
 
7. Incorrect K iai. (Kiai must be short and concentrated , and simultaneously with the 
technique. ) 
 
8. Belt coming loose to the extent that it is coming off the hips during the performance.  
 
9. Time wasting, including prolonged marching, excessive bowing, or prolonged pause 
before starting the performance, including using more than 35 seconds from the name 
of the Athlete/Team is announced on the monitor until the first move after the bow.  
 
10. Causing injury by lack of controlled technique during Bunkai . 
 
11. Simulated unconsciousness for more than 2 seconds at the time as part of the Bunkai . 
 5.8 Disqualification  
 
An Athlete or a Team  of Athletes may be disqualified for any of the following reasons:  
 1. Not announcing the kata,  announcing the wrong kata – or performing another kata than 
pre-announced to the official table . To be considered announced, the name of the kata 
must be reconcile to the judges.  
 
2. Failing to bow at the beginning and com pletion of the Kata  performance.  
 3. Not starting the Kata  facing the  Judge s. 
 
4. A distinct pause or stop in the performance.  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 17 -  
5. Omitting or adding movements  - or otherwise substantially change the performance fr om 
its original form . 
 
6. Persistent and obvious repe tition  of theatrics, such as stamping the feet, slapping the 
chest, arms , or Karategi, or inappropriate exhalation.  
 
7. Having to take a corrective step to r ecover from a  total loss of balance or have a fall.  
 8. Belt falling off during  the performance.  
 
9. Exceeding the total time limit of 5 minutes duration for Kata  and Bunkai . 
 
10. Performing a scissor takedown technique to the neck area in Bunkai  (Jodan Kani Basami)  
 
11. Failure to follow the instructions of the Chief Judge  or other misconduct  (SHIKKAKU).  
 The chief judge must call Shugo before the decision of  disqualification.  
 
5.9 Excessive celebration  and political or religious demonstrations  
 
5.9.1  Athletes are expected to respect the ceremony of salutations before and after the performance.  Any excessive celebration, such as falling on one’s knees etc., or  political or 
religious  expressions , during or immediately after the performance is , prohibited and will be 
subject to a fine equal to the amount determined by the EC for the protest fee.  The Tatami 
Manager or Chief Referee will notify the official table.  
 5.10 Determining the winner of bout in individual competition or a Team  match using the 
elimination system  
 5.10.1  For both individual bouts and Team  matches using the elimination system, the winner is the 
Athlete or Team that obtain s the highest  sum of votes of judges as indicated in 5. 5. 
 5.11 Determining the winner of a Round- robin  group  and resolving ties  in individual 
competition  
 
To determine the group winner of individual Round -robin  competition , and resolving ties,  the 
following steps are taken in order of precedence to determine the winner:  
 
1) Most victory points scored for all bouts.    
 
2) Winner of the bout between the Athletes in a tie. 
 
3) The highest of Sum of votes from judges picking the Athlete as winner in all the bouts  in 
the group . 
 
4) Athlete having the highest World Ranking.  
 
5) Performance of an extra kata for Athletes still in a tie.  
 
For each case of a tie , return to criterion 2.  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 18 - In the case of Kiken , the winning Athlete/Team will be awarded  4 votes for the bout.  
 
 
5.12 Determining the winner of a Round- robin  group and resolving ties, in Team  competition  
 
To determine the group winner of a  Round -robin  group , and resolving ties,  the following 
steps are taken in order of precedence to determine the winner:  
 
1) Most victory points scored for all matches.  
 
2) Winner of the match  between the Team s in the tie. 
 
3) The highest sum of votes from  Judges picking the Team  as the winner for all the matches  
in the group.  
 
4) Performance of an extra kata for Team s still in a tie.  
 
 For each case of a tie,  return to criteri on 2 . 
 
5.13 Determining the Runner -ups Between Different Round- robin Groups  
 
1) When comparing t he Runner -ups from two different Round -robin group s, the 
Athlete/Team  that has the most favo urable difference of judges  votes, for and against, will 
prevail.   
2) If there is a tie of more than two Athletes, the two Athletes with the highest ranking 
will prevail.  
3) Performance of an extra kata for Athletes still in a tie , consistent with Article 5.2.  
 
5.14 Manual Judging by use of flags  
 
5.14.1  Manual Judging by use of red and blue flags may be u sed for competition s where electronic 
judging equipment is not available or where a technical malfunction makes it impossible to 
make use of the electronic equipment.   
 
5.14.2  The following procedure will then apply , given the result of the bout: After both AKA and AO 
have completed the performance, the Head Judge will blow their  whistle,  and all five Judges 
(including the Head Ju dge) will simultaneously rais e their  flag to signal the winner.  The 
Judges will hold the flag raised  to allow for registration of results  until the Head Judge blows 
the whistle a second time,  signall ing that the flags are to be taken down .       
   
Rules Version  2026.0  - 19 - ARTICLE 6:  OPERATION OF MATCHES  
 
6.1 Before each round the Athletes  or Team s must submit their chosen Kata  to the assigned 
Runners who  will relay the information to the Software Technician  of the electronic judging 
system.  
 
6.2 It is the sole responsibility of the Coach, or in the absence of a Coach, the Athlete or Team, to 
ensure that the Kata as notified to the Runner is appropriate for that particular round.  
 
6.3 Should there be any discrepancy between the number and the name of the kata registered for 
performance, the number, as per the official WKF Kata list will prevail.   
 
6.4 Individual Athletes or Teams that do not present themselves when called, or decide not to 
continue, will be disqualified (KIKEN) from that category. Disqualification by KIKEN means that the Athlete s are disqualified from that category, although it does not affect participation in 
another category.  
 
 
6.5 The starting point for the performance is anywhere within the perimeter of the competition 
area.   
 6.6 Where a countdown clock is provided on the monito r, the Athlete or Team  is allowed 35 
seconds from the name of the Athlete or Team  is announced on the monitor until first move 
after the bow.
  
 
6.7 After the bow the Athlete or Team must clearly announce the name of the Kata that is to be 
performed and then start the performance.  
 
6.8 When is the Athlete or the Team is called (as soon as the Athlete or team's name appears on 
the screen), the Athlete or Team must promptly proceed to the starting point for the Kata, 
facing the Judges without any prolonged marching. After the bow, the name of the kata will be announced, and the performance will begin without any further delay.  
 
6.9 The match begins with a bow to the judges and then the Athletes /Teams  bow to each other. 
The Athlete/Team with the red belt (AKA) performs the kata first, followed by the 
Athlete /Team  with the blue belt (AO) upon completion of AKA's kata. The Athlete /Team  not 
performing is to stand next to the perimeter of the competition area and refrain from moving 
or talking to avoid disturbing the other Athlete /Team’s performance.  
 
6.10 At the end of the performance, which is defined as the final bow in the Kata , the Athlete(s)  
must return to the end of the competition area to wait for the announcement of the winner.  
 
6.11 When a n Athlete or Team ha s completed the Kata the judges (including the Chief Judge)  give 
their score  by electronic device.  
 
6.12 Once the announcement of the winner is given the Athletes or Teams will upon the signal “OTAG AI NI REI” bow to each other, and on “SHOMEN NI REI” bow to the Judges and leave the 
Tatami.  
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 20 - ARTICLE 7:  OFFICIAL PROTEST  
 
7.1  General provisions  
 
7.1.1 No one may protest about a Judgement to the members of the Refereeing Panel.  
 
7.1.2 If a Refereeing procedure appears to contravene the rules, the Athlete ’s Coach or their  official  
representative are the only ones allowed to make a protest.   
 
7.1.3 The protest will take th e form of a written report submitted immediately after the bout  in 
which the protest was generated. The sole exception is when the protest concerns an administrative malfunction.  
 
7.1.4 Any protest concerning application of the rules must not necessarily impede the progression 
of the competition and the intent to protest should be announced by the Coach or NF 
representative immediately after the end of the bout . 
 
7.1.5 The Coach / NF representative will request the official protest f orm [APPENDIX 3]  from the 
Tatami  Manager and will be expected to have it completed, signed, and delivered to the Tatami  
Manager with the corresponding fee wit hin 5 minutes after announcing the intent to protest.  
 
7.1.6 Failure of a Coach / NF representative to deliver a protest in a timely manner can  lead to its 
rejection if such delay, in the opinion of the Appeals Jury, is without reasonable justification 
and impedes the progression of the competition.   
 
7.1.7 The Tatami  Manager will immediately  add the names of the officials and  hand the completed 
protest form to a representative of the Appeals Jury. The Appeals Jury will, without delay , 
review the circumstances leading to the protested decision. Having considered all the facts 
available, they will produce a report and shall be empowered to take such action as may be called for. The protest will be reviewed by the Appeals Jury , and as part of this review, the Jury 
will study the evidence available in support of the protest.  
 
7.1.8 The protest may also be directly decided and announced to the Appeals Jury by the RC 
Chairman or the Chief Referee of the event, in which case no payment of a protest fee will be 
applicable.  
 
7.1.9 In case of an administrative malfunction during a bout  in progress, the Coach can notify the 
Tatami  Manager directly. In turn, the Tatami  Manager will notify the Chief Judge . 
 
7.1.10  The protest must give the name and country of the Athletes, the Judges officiating, and the precise details of what is being protested. No general claims about overall standards will be accepted as a legitimate protest. The burden of proving the validity of the protest lies with the complainant.  The protest must be submitted to a representative of the Appeals Jury  by the 
Tatami  Manager. In due course the Jury will review the circumstances leading to the protested 
decision.  
 
7.1.11  The protester  must deposit a Protest Fee as agreed by the WKF EC, and this, together with the 
protest must be lodged with the Tatami  Manager who will turn it over to a representative of 
the Appeals Jury.  
 
Rules Version  2026.0  - 21 - 7.1.12  Any protest should be announced by the Coach or NF representative immediately after the 
end of the bout . 
 
7.1.13  The decision of the Appeals Jury is final and may only be overruled by a decision of the 
Executive Committee upon request of the WKF President.  
 
7.1.14  The Appeals Jury may not impose sanctions or penalties. Their function is to pass judgment on the merit of the protest to start required actions from the RC and OC to take remedial action 
to rectify  any Refereeing procedure found to contravene the rules.  
 
7.1.15  If the protest involves Athletes in an ongoing category, then the next round  that could involve 
the athlete must be postponed until the appeal is decided.  
 
7.2 Composition of the Appeals Jury  
 
7.2.1 The Appeals Jury is comprised of three Senior Referee representatives appointed by the Referee Commission (RC)  or the Chief Referee . No two members may be appointed from the 
same National Federation. They will be numbered from 1 to 3.  
 
7.2.2 The RC will also appoint three additional members with designated numbering from 4 to 6 that 
automatically will replace any of the originally appointed Appeals Jury members in a conflict -
of-interest situation . I.e., where the jury member is of the same nationality or have a family 
relationship by blood or as an In -Law with any of the parties involved in the protested incident, 
including all members of the Refereeing panel involved in the protested incident.  
 7.3 Appeals Evaluation Process  
 
7.3.1 It is the responsibility of the Tatami  Manager receiving the protest to gather  the Appeals Jury 
and deposit the protest su m with WKF  for any declined protest . 
7.3.2 The Appeals Jury will immediately make such inquiries and investigations, as they consider  
necessary to validate  the merit of the protest.  
 7.3.3 Each of the three members is obliged to give their verdict as to the validity of the protest. 
Abstentions are not acceptable.  
 
7.4 Declined and accepted protests  
 
7.4.1 If a protest is found invalid, the Appeals Jury will appoint one of its members to verbally notify 
the protester  that the protest has been declined, mark the original document with the word 
“DECLINED”, have it signed by each of the members of the Appeals Jury , and inform the 
protester  of the decision.   
 
7.4.2 If the protest is accepted, the Appeals Jury will appoint one of its members who will verbally 
notify the protester that the protest has been accepted, mark the original document with the word “ACCEPTED”, and have it signed by each of the members of the Ap peals Jury, before 
depositing the protest with the Chief Referee, and returning the protest fee to the protester.  
 
7.4.3 After a protest is accepted , the appeals Jury will liaise with the Organising Commission (OC) 
and Chief Referee to take such measures as can be practically carried out to remedy the 
situation including the possibilities of:  
- Reversing previous judgments that contravene the rules  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 22 - - Voiding results of the affected rounds  from the point before  the incident  
- Redoing such bout s that have been affected by the incident 
- Issuing a recommendation to the RC for any involved Judge s evaluated for sanction.  
 
7.4.4 The responsibility rests with the Appeals Jury to exercise restraint and sound judgment in taking actions that will disturb the program of the event in any significant manner. Reversing the results  is a last option to secure a fair outcome.  
 
7.5 Incident Report  
 
7.5.1 After handling the incident in the above prescribed manner, the Appeals Jury  will meet again  
and elaborate a simple protest incident report, describing their findings and state their reason(s) for accepting or rejecting the protest.  
 
7.5.2 The report should be signed by all three members of the Appeals Jury and submitted to the Chief Referee and the Organising Commission.  
 
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 23 - ARTICLE  8: ELIGIBILITY  TO COMPETE  
 
8. 1 Age 
 
8.1.1 Allocation of age category is determined by the age of the Athlete on the first day of 
competition of the event.  
 
8.1.2 The senior categories for Kumite and Kata refer to different age groups. In the senior kumite 
categories athletes must be 18 years old, while in the Kata senior categories athletes must be 
at least 16 years old, both defined by 8.1.1.  
 
8.1.3 Participants in Under 21 categories must be 18, 19 or 20 years old, Junior categories they must be 16 or 17 years old, Cadet categories they must be 14 or 15 years old, and Under 14 
categories they must be 12 & 13 years old.  
 
8.2 NF Quota per Event  
 8.2.1 Each National Federation at the Cadet, Junior, & U21 World Championships, Individual World Senior Championships -  ¨Final Phase¨, and the Team  World Senior Championships is limited 
to 1 Athlete per category.  
 
8.2.2 Specific limitations may apply at the Individual Senior World Championships -  ¨Qualification 
Phase¨ . If an NF already has a qualified athlete in a category of the Individual Senior World 
Championships - ¨Final Phase¨, they may not register another athlete for the same category 
in the Individual World Championships -  ¨Qualification Phase¨ . 
 8.2.3 Karate 1 - Events are open competitions where all WKF members are permitted to participate 
without restriction of 1 Athlete per NF. Notwithstanding, participants must be members of a 
National Federation which is recognized by the WKF.  
 8.2.4 Multi -sport Events like the ANOC - Beach Games, World Games, Olympics may apply other 
criteria, to be defined in their respective Qualification System.  
 8.3 Nationality  
 
8.3.1 With the following exceptions, only Nationals of a country may take part in the World 
Championships and WKF official events representing their country.  
 
8.3.2 As a general rule, an Athlete who has represented one country in a WKF official event or 
World Championships cannot represent another country at an official WKF event or a World Championships.  
 
8.3.3 Nevertheless, if an Athlete who has taken part in one of those events obtains by marriage the nationality of the spouse, they may represent the spouse’s country.  
 
8.3.4 An Athlete who possesses dual nationality (i.e. one by virtue of the law of one country, the other by virtue of the law of another country) may only represent one or another country as the Athlete in question selects. Once having represented both countries , WKF EC approval 
will be necessary for a further change, following a reasoned written demand by the relevant 
NF to the WKF President.  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 24 - 8.3.5 An Athlete may represent the country of their birth and of which the Athlete is a National 
unless they opt to take the nationality of their father or mother.  
 
8.3.6 A naturalized Athlete (or one who has changed their nationality by naturalization) may not 
participate in the World Championships representing their new country until three years 
after their naturalization. The period following naturalization may be reduce d or even 
cancelled with the agreement of the two NFs concerned and the final approval of the WKF EC. 
 
8.3.7 If an associated State, Province or Overseas Department, a Country or former Colony acquires independence, or a country incorporated within another country by reason of a 
change of border, or if a new NF is recognized by WKF, an Athlete may continue to rep resent 
the country to which they belong or belonged. However, they may choose to represent their new country or their new NF in the World Championships.  
 
8.3.8 In instances where the WKF has recognized more than 1 (one) NF for which members hold 
the same national passport (i.e., for a country and its protectorates with separate governing 
national sporting bodies), the Athlete may only compete for the NF of reside nce, provided 
that has not yet competed for the other (s) NF(s) in WKF official events.  
 
8.3.9 In order to  get the transfer to another NF of which the nationals hold the same passport, it 
will be enough with the agreement between the 2 (two) NFs involved to confirm any change 
to the WKF concerning the status of an Athlete. In case of disagreement between the N Fs, 
any change will have to be approved by the WKF EC. In this case, the Athlete, through the NF concerned, will have to prove to the WKF’s satisfaction the residency in the territory governed by the other NF, or failing this, the relationship with the oth er NF that makes the 
change justifiable.  
 
8.3.10  Once the Athlete has represented all the NFs involved, the WKF EC approval will be necessary for any further change.  
 
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 25 - ARTICLE 9: ADOPTATION OF THESE RULES TO0 EVENTS OUTSIDE THE WKF OFFICIAL 
EVENT PROGRAMME  
 
9.1 National Federations may modify these rules for the purpose of national competitions or other 
competitions not on the official WKF programme, as long as these adaptations do not provide an 
advantage or disadvantage for particular styles of karate.  
 
9.2 National Federations are encouraged to consult their national sports authorities for guidance 
on national law and/or guidelines for competitive sports for children under 12 years of age.  
 9.3 Any deviation from the Competition Rules applied to a competition must be announced in the 
official bulletin or invitation to the event.   
 
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 26 -  
ARTICLE 10:  ISSUES NOT SPECIFICALLY COVERED BY THE RULES  
 
From time  to time,  situations may occur where the rules fall short of giving specific instructions to 
resolve an issue. In such instances , the Chief Referee for the competition has the authority to resolve 
the issue by applying analogous  resolution s to similar cases found in the rules or  their  best judgment. 
Before making a decision, the Chief Referee may consult the assigned WKF Representative for the 
tournament or escalate the issue to the Sports Commissioner for consultation before taking a decision.  
 
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 27 - APPENDIX 1:  OFFICIAL KATA LIST  
 
 
 
 
In reporting the kata to be performed use the designated number. Should there be inconsistency between the number and the name of the kata, the number will be considered the reported kata to be performed.   

Rules Version  2026.0  - 28 - APPENDIX 2:  KATA COMPETITION CATEGORIES  
 
Team  Kata Senior Male  (16+ years)  
Team  Kata Senior Female  (16+ years)  
 Team  Kata Cadet and Junior Male  (14 - <18 years)  
Team Kata Cadet and Junior Female  (14- <18 years)  
 Individual Kata Senior Male  (16+ years)  
Individual Kata Senior Female  (16+ years)  
 Individual Kata U 21 (18 -  <21) Male  
Individual Kata U 21 (18 -  <21) Female  
 
Individual Kata Junior Male  (16 - <18 years)  
Individual Kata Junior Fem ale (16 - <18 years)  
 
Individual Cadet Kata Male  (14 - <16 years)  
Individual Cadet Kata Female  (14 - <16 years)  
 
Youth Kata U14 Male ( 12- <14 years ) 
Youth Kata U14 Female ( 12- <14 years ) 
  
Rules Version  2026.0  - 29 - APPENDIX 3: KATA PROTEST FORM  
WKF OFFICIAL PROTEST FORM   
 
KATA  
The protest must be prepaid.  
 
DATE  COMPETITION  PLACE  
 
…….. / …….. / …….. 
   
 
            NAME OF THE ATHLETE                        COUNTRY  
 
 
  
 
PROTEST DESCRIPTION  
 
 
 
 
     
 
    
 
                                                                             To be continued on the other side of this page  
 
 
 
 
 
NAME  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Valid as receipt by the WKF  
SIGNATURE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   
TATAMI N° TM Manager:  
PANEL  Judge 1  Judge 2  Judge 3  Judge 4  Judge 5  Judge 6  Judge 7  
NAME         
COUNTRY         
 
  

Rules Version  2026.0  - 30 - APPENDIX 4: SUMMARY TABLE OF WINNING CRITERIA AND  TIE RESOLUTION  
 
 
 
 

