 
 
  
WKF COMPETITION RULES BULLETIN  
Competition Rules Revision e Ưective from 1.1.2026  
 
December 2025  
Dear fellow karateka,  
 
EƯective from 1.1.2026 there are some changes to the WKF 
Competition Rules. This is mostly adjustment of the language 
and alignment between the documents describing each type of 
event and the actual competition rules. Nevertheless, there are 
several points that require the attention of athletes and 
coaches:  
 
New system for kata competition  
The winner of a Kata bout or Match will be determined by number of votes in favor of 
the winner. The points will still be used to distinguish the winner by each judge, but 
there is no summation of points. This will eliminate the problem of our previous 
system where the winner in some cases only had the support of the minority of 
judges, just because one judge consistently used very high or very low scores.  
 
Theatrics in Kata  
In the spirit of preserving the nature of kata, some adjustments has been done to 
reduce needless theatrics. The Athletes will be expected to announce the name 
kata in a recognizable way, use correct kiai rather than simply yelling, and will also 
run the risk of disqualiﬁcation in the case of persistent and obvious repetition of 
theatrics, such as stamping the feet, slapping the chest, arms, or karategi, or 
inappropriate exhalation.  
 
Attire and protective equipment  
The karategi must not be altered or manipulated to change its shape. If you arrive at 
the tatami with a starched ducktail or pu Ưed up chest, you should expect to be 
asked to remedy this as you would be for any other irregularity of attire. Prescription 
sport glasses will now be allowed in kata competition.  
 
Scoring on a downed opponent  
The most important change in Kumite is that only hand techniques will be allowed 
towards a downed opponent. Kicking a downed opponent will thus be a foul.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Enforcement of all scoring criteria  
For some time the scoring criteria of maintaining attention at the opponent after a 
technique has often been ignored. The importance of this criteria will now be 
emphasized. If you turn away after landing a punch, or fall down after a kick, do not 
expect to get a score!  
 
Skin touch in all Kumite categories  
So called “skin touch”, deﬁned as touching without transferring energy into the 
target, being the head or helmet, will be allowed in all o Ưicial kumite categories. This 
does of course demand the full respect of all organizers to strictly enforce the use 
of the protective helmet for athletes under 14 years of age, who will still be given 
scores for hand techniques 5 cm short of target and foot techniques 10 cm short of 
target.   
 
Simpliﬁcation of Jogai   
You will also ﬁnd the rules for Jogai simpliﬁed. If you score and then exit no Jogai will 
be given. If you are scored on while in Jogai, you will not get Joagi in addition to the 
point against you.  
 
Video review  
When requesting video review, the coach will now use the designated button for 1, 
2 or 3 points, and the Video Review Judge will only be required to look for the score 
requested.  
 
Mixed Team Kumite  
Although not on the WKF o Ưicial program, a number of NFs have arranged mixed 
team Kumite competitions. We have therefore found it convenient to include this in 
our competition rules to give some guidance. Teams will always have an equal 
number of athletes of each gender. Every other bout will always be of the opposite 
gender. The draw will determine which gender will compete ﬁrst. Teams can be 2 + 
2 without weight categories or 3 + 3 with weight categories as used for muti-sport 
events.   
 
Para Karate  
There is not a great deal of change in the Para Karate at these crossroads. For K10 
(Visually Impaired Athletes), blindfolds moving out of the correct position so that 
they partially or fully uncover one or both eyes during the performance will now be 
considered ground for disqualiﬁcation. There is also a revision of the deﬁnition of 
the foul of losing balance versus falls that constitutes grounds for disqualiﬁcation.   
   
 
Gunnar Nordahl  
Chairman  
WKF Rules & World Ranking Commission  

