Rules  Version  2026.01  1   
 
 
WORLD KARATE FEDERATION 
KUMITE COMPETITION RULES 
Valid  from 1.1 .2026.  
 
      
 
             
 
        
NOTE  - 13APR26: Adjustments of text for Articles 3.5.8, 3.6.1, 8.11 f), and 12.5.2 are marked 
in blue colour.  

Rules  Version  2026.01  2  CONTENT  
INTRODUCTION  ........................................................................................................................................... 3 
ARTICLE  1 : KUMITE  COMPETITION  AREA  .................................................................................... 3 
ARTICLE  2 : ATTIRE  AND  PROTECTIVE  EQUIPMENT  ................................................................... 5 
ARTICLE  3 : ORGANISATION  OF KUMITE  COMPETITIONS  ........................................................ 9 
ARTICLE  4 : THE  REFEREE  PANEL  ................................................................................................... 16 
ARTICLE  5 : DURATION  OF BOUT  ................................................................................................... 18 
ARTICLE  6 : KIKEN  – FAILURE  TO APPEAR  AT THE  TATAMI  .................................................... 18 
ARTICLE  7 : STARTING,  SUSPENDING  AND  ENDING  OF MATCHES ...................................... 19 
ARTICLE  8 : SCORING  ........................................................................................................................ 21 
ARTICLE  9 : PROHIBITED  BEHAVIOUR  .......................................................................................... 23 
ARTICLE  10 : WARNINGS  & PENALTIES  .......................................................................................... 25 
ARTICLE  11 : INJURIES  AND  ACCIDENTS  IN COMPETITION  ..................................................... 29 
ARTICLE  12 : CRITERIA  FOR  DECISION  ........................................................................................... 31 
ARTICLE  13 : OFFICIAL  PROTEST  ...................................................................................................... 35 
ARTICLE  14 : VIDEO  REVIEW  REQUEST  .......................................................................................... 38 
ARTICLE  15 : POWERS  AND  DUTIES  OF OFFICIALS  ..................................................................... 40 
ARTICLE  16 : ELIGIBILITY  TO COMPETE  ......................................................................................... 43 
ARTICLE  17 : ADAPTATION  OF THESE  RULES  TO EVENTS  OUTSIDE  THE  WKF  OFFICIAL  
EVENT  PROGRAMME  ............................................................................................................................... 45 
ARTICLE  18 : ISSUES  NOT  SPECIFICALLY  COVERED  BY THE  RULES  ........................................ 46 
APPENDIX  1: THE TERMINOLOGY  ......................................................................................................... 47 
APPENDIX  2 : GESTURES  AND  FLAG  SIGNALS  ............................................................................... 48 
APPENDIX  3 : CATEGORIES,  AGE  & WEIGHT  DIVISIONS  ............................................................ 53 
APPENDIX  4 : OFFICIAL  PROTEST FORM  ......................................................................................... 54 
APPENDIX  5 : TWO  JUDGE  SYSTEM .................................................................................................. 55 
APPENDIX  6 : SUMMARY  TABLE  OF WINNING  CRITERIA  AND  TIE RESOLUTION  ................ 57 
Rules  Version  2026.01  3  INTRODUCTION  
The purpose of the Kumite Rules is to provide standardized rules for all levels of Championships 
promoted or recognized by the World Karate Federation (WKF), WKF Continental Federations, and WKF Member National Federations. The Competition Rules are intend ed to ensure that all matters 
related to competitions are conducted in a safe, fair, and orderly manner.  
ARTICLE  1 :
  KUMITE  COMPETITION  AREA 
1.1 The competition area will be a WKF Approved matted square, with sides of eight metres 
(measured from the outside) with the mats in the outer one- metre area in another colour, 
marking  the boundary.  There  will be a 2 metres  safety  area surrounding the competition  area.  
 
1.2 There will be a minimum  of 2 metres  between  competition  areas.  
 
1.3 There must be no advertisements, signs, walls, pillars, etc. within one metre of the safety 
area's outer perimeter.  
 
1.4 Where monitors  or displays  are placed  between  the competition  areas,  these must  be placed 
far enough  from  the competition  areas  to allow  a safety  area  of 2 metres  between  competition 
areas on all sides. (The monitors must be placed at a minimum of 2 metres from the outside 
of the outer different coloured warning area.)  
1.5 Two mats are inverted with the red (or otherwise coloured) side turned up in one metre 
distance  from  the mat centre  to form  a boundary  between  the Athletes.  When  starting  or 
resuming combat, the Athletes will be standing front and centre on the mat facing each other.  
1.6 
The Referee (SHUSHIN) will be standing centred between the two mats, facing the Athletes at a 
distance of two metres from the boundary of the competition area. Each Judge (FUKUSHIN) will 
be seated  at the designated  area.  If seated  on the TATAMI,  they  will be placed approximately  1.5 
metres off the corners in the safety area.  
 
1.7 The Referee may  move  around  the entire  Tatami,  including  the safety  area  where  the Judges  are 
seated. Each Judge will be equipped with a red and a blue flag or an electronic signal device.  
1.8 The Match  Supervisor  (KANSA)  will be seated  at the official table.  They  will be equipped  with  a 
whistle.  
 
1.9 The Score  Supervisor  will be seated  at the official score  table  beside  the score/timekeeper,  and 
where video is deployed, so will the Video Review Judge.  
1.10 Coaches will be seated outside the safety area, on their respective sides of the TATAMI 
towards  the official table.  In cases  where  the configuration  of Tatami  makes  it impractical to 
place the Coaches facing the official table, they may instead be placed on each side of the official table. If in such cases, video review is used, Coach supervisors must be deployed.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  4  Flag System  Competition  Set Up 
 
Initial  Rounds  Medal  bouts  
 
Joysticks  System  Competition  Set Up 
 
Initial  Rounds  Medal  bouts  
 

Rules  Version  2026.01  5   
ARTICLE  2 : ATTIRE  AND  PROTECTIVE  EQUIPMENT  
2.1 Referees  and Judges  
 
2.1.1 The official uniform  will be as follows:  
a) A single -breasted  navy -blue  blazer  (colour  code  19-4023  TPX)  
b) Plain  light -grey  trousers  without  turn -ups (colour  code  18-0201  TPX)  
c) A white  shirt  with  short sleeves  
d) Plain  dark blue  or black  socks and  black  slip-on shoes  for use on the match  area  
e) An official tie, worn  without  a tiepin  
f) A black whistle  with  a discreet white  cord  for the whistle  
 
2.1.2 The following  additions  to attire  are allowed:  
a) A plain  wedding band  
b) Voluntary  religious  headwear  approved  by the WKF  
c) A hairclip  and discreet earrings  
d) Hair must  be worn  off the shoulders  and make -up must  be discreet  
e) Heels  of more  than  4 cm may  not be  worn  with  the uniform  
It is strictly forbidden for officials to use phones, wear smartwatches, or make use of private 
electronic devices within the confines of the field of play. Sunglasses are not allowed.  
 
2.1.3 Referees and Judges must wear the official uniform at all tournaments, seminars, briefings, 
and courses.  
 
2.1.4 For multisport  events where a cross -sport uniform is provided for  Referees at  the cost of the 
LOC with the feel and look of the specific event, the official uniform for Referees might be 
substituted by that common uniform, provided that it is requested in writing to the WKF by the event organiser and formally approved by the WKF.  
2.1.5 If the Chief Referee  agrees,  refereeing  officials  may  be allowed  to remove  their  blazers.  
 
2.1.6 The Referee Commission or Chief Referee may refuse the participation of any official who does 
not comply with these rules.  
 
2.2 Athletes  
 
2.2.1 Athletes must wear a WKF Approved white Karategi without piping or personal embroidery 
other  than  allowed  explicitly by the  WKF EC and specified in  the bulletin  for the competition:  
 
a) For all official WKF events (World Championships and Karate 1 -  Premier League, 
Series A and Youth League), the Karategi must have embroidered brands on the 
shoulders in red or blue, respectively, according to the draw. Exceptions include the 
grand winners  of the previous Premier League season, who should wear a gold 
shoulder embroidery in current Premier League events, and the incumbent Senior World  Champion,  who  should wear  a gold  shoulder  embroidery in the  current  Senior 
World Championship. This applies equally to individuals and teams. There is no WKF requirement for the Team members wearing the same brand of Karategi.  
 
b) Only  the original manufacturer’s  labels  may  be displayed  on the Karategi.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  6   
The national  emblem  or flag of the country  will be worn  on the left breast  of the jacket 
and may not exceed an overall size of 12cm by 8cm.  
 
In addition, identification issued by the Organising Committee will be worn on the back. 
The back number is mandatory for Karate 1 –  Premier League, Karate World 
Championships and Karate World Cup.  
 

Rules  Version  2026.01  7  c) Athletes  or Teams  must  wear  a WKF  Approved  red belt (AKA)  or blue  belt (AO)  as allocated 
by the draw, without any personal embroideries, advertising or markings other than the 
customary label from the manufacturer. Belts of grade cannot be worn during the bout.  
d) The red and blue  belts  must  be around  five centimetres  wide  and of a length  sufficient 
to allow fifteen  centimetres free on each side  of the  knot, but not longer than three-  
quarters of thigh length.  
e) The jacket, when tightened around the waist with the belt, must be of a minimum 
length  that covers  the hips,  but must  not be more  than  three- quarters  of thigh  length.  
f) Female  Athletes  can wear  a plain  white  T-shirt  beneath  the Karate  jacket.  
g) Jackets without ties cannot be used. The jacket ties holding the jacket in place must 
be tied at the beginning of the bout. If they are torn off during the bout, the Athlete 
is not required to change the jacket.  
h) The maximum length of the jacket sleeves must be no longer than the bend of the 
wrist and no shorter than halfway down the forearm.  
i) Jacket sleeves  cannot  be rolled  up. 
j) The trousers must be long enough to cover at least two -thirds of the shin and must 
not reach below the anklebone. Trouser legs cannot be rolled up.  
k) The Karategi  must  not be altered  or manipulated  to change  its shape.  
2.2.2 The WKF  Executive  Committee  can authorise  the display  of special labels  or trademarks  (brand 
logos) of approved sponsors.  
2.2.3 Athletes must keep their hair clean and cut to a length that does not obstruct smooth bout 
conduct. Hachimaki (headband) will not be allowed.  
 
2.2.4 Hair slides are prohibited, as are metal hairgrips. Ribbons, beads and other decorations are 
prohibited. One or two discreet rubber bands on a single ponytail are permitted.  
 
2.2.5 Athletes may, according to their own individual choice, use religious headwear approved by 
the WKF: A black plain fabric head scarf covering the hair, but not the neck or throat area.  
 
2.2.6 Athletes  must  have  short  fingernails  and must  not wear  metallic  or other  objects,  which  might 
injure  their  opponents.  The use of metallic  teeth  braces  must  be approved  by the Referee  and 
the Tournament Doctor. The Athlete accepts full responsibility for any injury.  
2.2.7 The following  protective  equipment  is compulsory:  
a) WKF  Approved  mitts,  one Athlete  wearing  red and the other  wearing  blue.  
b) Gum  shield.  
c) WKF Approved body protector for males. Females are to use a chest and body protector 
or the integrated chest/body protector.  
d) WKF  Approved  shin pads,  one Athlete wearing  red and the other  wearing  blue.  
e) WKF  Approved  foot  protection,  one Athlete  wearing  red and the other  wearing  blue.  
f) WKF  Approved  groin  guards  for male  Athletes.  
g) For Athletes  under  14 years  of age,  the use of a WKF  Approved  helmet  and external  body 
protector is compulsory.  
h) For Female Athletes under 14 years of age, the use of WKF Approved chest protector is 
also compulsory.  
2.2.8 Glasses are forbidden.  Soft contact lenses  can be worn  at the Athlete's  own  risk. 
 
2.2.9 The wearing  of any unauthorised  apparel,  clothing or equipment  is forbidden.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  8  2.2.10  It is the duty  of the Match  Supervisor  to ensure,  before  each  match  or bout,  that the Athletes 
are wearing the approved equipment. All protective equipment must be WKF Approved.  
 
2.2.11  In the case of Continental Federations, they will limit themselves to providers and brands 
already approved for WKF. National Federations must also accept all WKF Approved 
equipment for all local, regional or national competitions.  
 
2.2.12  The use of bandages,  padding,  or supports  because  of injury  must  be approved  by the Referee 
and done or approved by the Tournament Doctor.  
 
2.2.13  In case that deformities or amputations that do not allow for safe and secure fitting of the 
protective equipment  or could  represent  a risk to the athlete  or their  opponents,  competitive 
Kumite will not be permitted. In any doubt, the Referees should ask the doctor for the decision.  
2.2.14  Athletes that appear at the competition area with unauthorized equipment or irregular 
Karategi will be given two minutes to correct the attire, and the Coach based on the report 
from the Chief Referee may have their coaching license suspended for a period of up to 6 months  starting  the date  after  the applicable  tournament  unless  the equipment  and attire  has 
been checked beforehand by a WKF Controller.  
 
2.3 Coaches  
 
2.3.1 Coaches must at all times during the tournament, briefing, and courses wear the official 
tracksuit  of their  National  Federation,  wear  shoes, and display  their  official  identification.  The 
exception is bouts/matches for medals in official WKF events, where male Coaches are 
required to wear a dark suit, shoes covering the feet, shirt and tie. Female Coaches may 
choose to wear a dress, pantsuit, or a combination of jacket and skirt in dark  colours and 
shoes. Sandals, or any other open -toe shoes, are prohibited . Sunglasses are not allowed.  
2.3.2 In addition,  the following  additions  to attire  are allowed:  
 
a) A plain  wedding band.  
b) Religious  headwear  approved  by the WKF.  
2.3.3 The Chief Referee can allow Coaches to use the federation’s official Team t -shirt or a plain 
coloured t -shirt without writing or logos instead of the tracksuit jacket.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  9   
ARTICLE  3 : ORGANISATION  OF KUMITE  COMPETITIONS  
3.1 Definitions  
 
3.1.1 A “bout”  refers  to an individual  bout  between  two Athletes.  
 
3.1.2 A “match”  is the total  of all bouts  between  the members  of two Teams.  
 
3.1.3 The term “group” is here used about the Athletes participating in one of the eight or more 
groups in the Round -robin phase for individual competition or the group of five Teams 
participating in round -robin Team competition.  
3.1.4 The term “pool” is used for each of the two halves of the total number of Athletes in a 
category, forming the two paths of advancement towards competing for the medals.  
 
3.1.5 A “runner -up” refers  to the second  place  Athlete in a Round -robin  group.  
3.2 Weigh -in procedure  
 
3.2.1 Rehearsal  weighing  
Athletes  shall be allowed  to check  their  weight  on the official weigh- in scales  (that  will be used 
for the official weigh -in) from one hour before the official weigh -in commences. There is no 
limit to the number of times each Athlete may check their weight during the time of the 
unofficial weigh -in. 
3.2.2 Official weighing:  
 
a) Place:  
The weight control will always take place in only one location. The possibilities to host this control  are the competition  venue,  the official hotel  or the village  (To be  announced  for each 
event). Organizers must provide separate rooms for men and women.  
 
b) Scales:  
If the official scale  shows  a higher  weight  than  the scale  provided  for test weighing,  the Athlete 
can demand to be weighed again, applying the weight shown on the test scale as the official result of the weigh -in. 
The host  NF should  provide  enough  calibrated  electronic  scales  (at least  4 units)  showing  only 
one decimal place,  e.g. 51.9 kg, 104.6 kg. The scale  should  be placed  on a solid  floor  that is not 
carpeted.  
c) Time:  
Weigh -in must  take  place  no later  than  the day before  the competition  for the category,  unless 
specified otherwise for a specific competition. The official weigh -in time for WKF events will 
be duly announced on the bulletin. For any other events, this information will be distributed in advance through the OC communication channels. It is the responsibility of the Athlete to be aware  of this information.  An Athlete who  does  not turn  up for the weigh- in period  or fails 
to weigh within  the prescribed  limits  for the category  in which  the Athlete  is registered  will be 
disqualified (KIKEN).  
Rules  Version  2026.01  10  d) Tolerance:  
The tolerances  admitted  are 0.2 kg for all male  categories  and 0.5 kg for all female  categories. 
The same tolerance applies to both the upper and lower limits of a weight class.  
 
e) Procedure:  
A minimum of two WKF officials are required at the weigh -in for each gender. One to check 
the accreditation/passport of the Athlete, and one to record the exact weight on the official 
weigh- in list. An additional six staff members (officials/volunteers) su pplied by the host NF 
should also be available to control the flow of Athletes. Twelve chairs must be supplied. To protect the privacy of the Athletes, officials, as well as the staff members supervising the weigh- in, must be of the same gender as the Athl etes.  
1. The official weigh -in will be done  category  by category  and Athlete by Athlete.  
2. All Coaches and other Team delegates must leave the weigh -in room before the 
start of the official weigh -in. 
3. The Athlete is allowed to stand on the scales only once during the  official weigh - 
in period.  
4. Each Athlete shall bring to the weigh -in their accreditation card issued for the
 
event  and shall present  it to the official,  who  will verify  the identity  of the Athlete.  
5. The official then  invites  the Athlete to stand  on the scales.  
6. The Athlete shall weigh -in wearing only underclothing (men/boys –  underpants, 
women/girls – underpants and bra). Any socks or additional complements must 
be removed.  
7. The official supervising the weigh- in shall  note  and record  the Athlete’s  weight  in 
kilograms (accurate to one decimal point of a kilogram).  
8. The Athlete steps  off the scales.  
NOTE: Photography or filming is not permitted in the weigh -in area. This includes the use of 
mobile phones and all other devices.  
 
3.3 Seeding  
3.3.1 For the Phase 2 of the WKF World Championships, the four highest ranked Athletes present 
at the competition  are seeded by  their respective ranking in the WKF World Ranking as per 
the day before the competition.  
 
3.3.2 For World  Cup competition,  the medallist  plus the loser  of the bronze  medal  from  the previous 
World Cup will be seeded.  
 
3.3.3 For other WKF competitions, refer to the respective organising rules regarding seeding 
procedures.”  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
Rules  Version  2026.01  11  3.4 Competition  formats  
3.4.1 Karate Kumite competition takes the form of individual competition divided by gender, age 
groups, and weight categories or Team competition by gender without weight categories or 
mixed teams, either with or without weight categories, and can be organised in several 
formats:  
 
a) Elimination system with repechage  for Individuals or Teams. (Used unless otherwise 
specified for the competition).  
b) Round -robin in groups followed by Elimination for individuals or Teams . (Used for 
individual  Premier  League  competitions  and the Senior  World  Championships  for both 
individuals and Teams).  
 
c) Two -pool  Round -robin  system  (used  for multisport  games).  
 
3.4.2 The Elimination  system  with  repechage  will be applied  unless  otherwise  pre-determined  for a 
specific competition or series of tournaments.  
3.4.3 For individual  competition  in Premier  League,  the Senior  Individual  World  Championships  and 
the World Team Championships, the Round -robin system followed by Elimination  is applied.  
 
3.4.4 For multisport  games,  such  as continental  games,  Olympic  Games,  or other  multisport  events, 
the format of competition will be determined for each event depending on modalities 
included and restrictions on participation. The format used is normally a two -pool system 
where the winners of the pools go to the final.  
3.5 Composition  of Kumite  Teams  
 
3.5.1 Matches in Kumite for male Teams consist of 5 bouts. The Team must present 5 participants 
for the initial match.  To participate in Round -robin competition, the Team must also have 2 
additional back -up Athletes  registered  for possible  participation  in subsequent  bouts  and may 
also have a third optional back -up Athlete -  bringing the maximum size of the Team to 8 
Athletes. For any elimination matches, the Team must always have a minimum of 3 participants in order to compete.  
3.5.2 Matches  in Kumite  for female  Teams  consist  of 3 bouts.  The Team  must  present  3 participants 
for the initial match. To participate in Round -robin competition, the Team must also have 1 
additional back -up Athlete registered  for possible  participation  in subsequent bouts and  may 
also have a second optional back -up Athlete -  bringing the maximum size of the Team to 5 
Athletes.  For any elimination  match,  the Team  must  always  have  a minimum  of 2 participants 
in order to compete.  

Rules  Version  2026.01  12  3.5.3 In Team Kumite  competition without  weight  categories, the  Team  change  which  of the Team 
members  should  participate  in each  match.  For a tie-break  bout,  the Team  may  submit  a single 
name as they would normally do for a new round.  
 
3.5.4 During Round -robin  competition,  the Team  must  complete all bouts  in order  to remain  in the 
competition. If it does not, all bouts and matches will be voided, and no victory points or 
scoring points  will be  counted. Likewise, all victory points and  scoring  points  earned by  other 
Teams in meeting the Team eliminated will be voided.  
3.5.5 In the second match of an Elimination tournament, and in the Elimination phase following 
Round -robin, male Teams can never present fewer than 3 Athletes for a match and female 
Teams can never present fewer than 2.  
 
3.5.6 Matches  in Mixed  Team  Competition  consist  of 4 or 6 bouts,  with  an equal  number  of Athletes 
of each gender. The Team must present a full team for the initial round. For any subsequent 
rounds  the team  must  present  a number  of Athletes  sufficient  to win by the number  of bouts 
won.  
3.5.7 In Mixed Team Competition by weight categories each team must present all Athletes in all 
designated weight categories, both male and female.  
 
3.5.8 The designated weight categories for Mixed Team Competition are 3 male and 3 female to a 
total of 6 weight categories.  The weight categories for seniors are -67kg, -75kg , and +75kg for 
males and - 55kg, -61kg, and +61kg for females. The corresponding weight categories for 
juniors are - 61kg, -68kg and +68kg for males and - 53kg, -59kg and +59kg for females.  
 
3.6 Fighting order  for Teams  
 
3.6.1 Before each match, a Team representative must hand to the official table an official form 
defining the names and fighting order of the competing Team members. For mixed teams, the 
fighting order is listed separately for male and female Athletes -  and which gender will be in 
the first bout of each match will be determined by drawing.  
 
3.6.2 The fighting  order  form  can be presented  by the Coach  or a nominated  Athlete from  the Team. 
If the Coach hands in the form, they must be clearly identifiable as such;  otherwise, it can be 
rejected.  The list must  include  the name  of the country,  the belt colour  allocated  to the Team 
for that match and the fighting order of the Team members. Both the Athletes’ names and their tournament numbers  must  be included,  and the  form  must be signed  by the Coach  or a 
nominated person.  
3.6.3 Coaches must present their accreditation together with that of their Athlete or Team to the 
Coach  Supervisor  or Kansa  Assistant.  For Team  competition,  it is allowed  to use two Coaches, 
but only  one Coach  can actively  be coaching in each  bout,  while  the other  must  sit in the chair 
provided without interfering with the progress of the bout.  
 
3.6.4 When lining up before a match, a Team will present the actual fighters for that round. The 
unused  fighter(s)  and the Coach  will not be included  and shall sit in an area  set aside  for them.  
3.6.5 The participants can be selected for each round from the full Team. Their fighting order can be changed  for each  round,  provided  the new  fighting  order  is notified  before  the round,  but 
once notified, it cannot be changed until that round is completed.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  13   
3.6.6 The Team will be disqualified (SHIKKAKU) if any of its members or its Coach changes the 
Team's composition or fighting order without written notification prior to the round.  
 
3.6.7 If, through an error in charting, the wrong Athlete/Team competes, then regardless of the 
outcome, that bout/match is declared null and void. To reduce such errors, the Score 
Supervisor  must  confirm  the winning Athlete/Team  with  the software  technician  immediately 
after the bout/match.  
3.6.8 In Team matches where an individual loses on account of receiving KIKEN, HANSOKU or SHIKKAKU, any score for the disqualified Athlete will be set to zero, and a score of 8 -0 (counted 
as YUKO) will be recorded for that bout in favour of the other Team.  
3.7 Round- robin,  Individual  Competition  
3.7.1 In individual Premier League events, Round -robin competition using groups of 4 Athletes,  the 
maximum 32 participants are divided into  8 groups of  4 Athletes  or fewer. The winner  of each 
of the eight groups go on to regular quarterfinals, semi- finals and final. The losers to  the 
finalists in the quarter-  and semi -finals compete for the bronze medals. While in Individual 
World Senior Championship Phase 2,  the winners and runners -up of each of the 8 groups  
advance to  the regular round  16, quarterfinals,  semi -finals  and final.  The losers  to the finalists 
in the quarter - and semi -finals compete for the bronze medals.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rules  Version  2026.01  14   
 
 
3.7.2 According to the number  of Athletes  (32 or less), the allocation  to groups  will be as per the 
following table:  
 
Number  of Athletes/Groups  Athletes  per group  Notes  
8 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation:  24-32 Athletes  
Seed  ►  3  2  4  1  
32 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4  
 
 
 
The first of each  Group  qualify.  31 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 
30 4 4 4 3 4 4 4 3 
29 4 3 4 3 4 4 4 3 
28 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 
27 4 3 4 3 3 3 4 3 
26 3 3 4 3 3 3 4 3 
25 3 3 3 3 3 3 4 3 
24 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 
6 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation:18 -23 Athletes  
Seed  ►  3  2  4  1  
23 4 4  4 4 4  3  
 
The first of each  Group  and the  two best  runners -up qualify.  22 4 4 3 4 4 3 
21 4 3 3 4 4 3 
20 4 3 3 4 3 3 
19 4 3 3 3 3 3 
18 3 3 3 3 3 3 
5 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation:  17 Athletes  
Seed  ►  3  2  4  1  
17   
3  3 4 4  3 The first of each  Group  and the  best  three  runners -up qualify.  
4 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation:  12-16 Athletes  
Seed  ►  3  2  4  1  
16  4  4  4  4  
 
The first and runner -up of each  Group.  15 4 4 4 3 
14 4 3 4 3 
13 3 3 4 3 
12 3 3 3 3 
3 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation:  9-11 Athletes  
Seed  ►  3  2  1  
11  4  4  3 The first and runner -up of each  Group,  as well as the best  two number - 
threes  qualify.  10 4 3 3 
9 3 3 3 
2 Groups  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation:  6-8 Athletes  
Seed  ►  2  1  
8  4  4 
The first and runner -up of each  Group,  will compete  directly in the 
semi -finals.  7 4 3 
6 3 3 
1 Group  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Participation:  3-5 Athletes  
Seed  ►  1  
5  5 Final between first and runner -up of the Group, and only one bronze  
medal  bout.  4 4 
3 3 
Rules  Version  2026.01  15  3.7.3 If an individual  is disqualified  or is unable  to complete  all bouts  in the Round -robin,  the scores 
of completed or current bouts will be nullified, and their victory points forfeited, unless it is 
the last bout of the Round -robin, in which case, all previous results and points remain 
unchanged.  
 
3.7.4 The winner and runner -up of each group are determined by whoever has the most victory 
points  by counting wins  as three  points  per win,  one point  for a draw  where  points  are scored. 
Bouts lost or draws with no scores give zero points.  
 
3.7.5 The winners of the semi -finals will then go on to the final, where they compete for gold and 
silver.  
 
3.7.6 Those who have lost to the finalists in the quarter finals and semi- finals will compete for the 
bronze medals (One for groups 1 -4 and one for groups 5 -8). 
 
 
3.8 Phase  1 of the Individual  World  Championships  
 
For Phase 1 of the Individual World Championships, there is no limitation to 32 Athletes per 
category, and when required, the number of groups will be increased as well as the number of Athletes within the same group. Additional rounds of Round -robin will be fought until the 
number of winners qualified to proceed is 24 or less, after which straight Elimination bouts will determine the 6 winners that will qualify for Phase 2.  
3.9 World  Cup for National  Teams  
For the  World  Cup, the Round -robin  system followed by quarterfinals, semi- finals and  final is 
applied.  5 Teams  are allocated to  each group. The winners and the runners -up of each group 
then compete in quarter -finals, semi- finals, and the final. After the Group Phase, the Group 
Winners and runners -up advance to the quarter -finals, where the bout winners head to the 
Semi -Finals  and the winner  to the Finals.  Those  who  have  lost to the finalists  in the semi -finals 
will compete for one bronze  medal.  The winner  of the finals  receives  the gold  medal  while  the 
loser  receives  a silver medal.  The winner  of the bronze  match  will take  bronze,  while  the losing 
Team is not awarded a medal.  
  
3.10 Variations  to competition  formats  
 
If a variation  of the competition  format  other  than  described  in these rules  is to be applied  for 
a particular tournament, this must be clearly announced in the tournament bulletin.  
 
3.11 Coaching  
 
3.11.1  In World  Championships,  Kumite Coaches need  to be part of a National  Federation  delegation 
and have the required Coach certification level when acting during the bout of an Athlete.  
3.11.2  Exceptionally,  in competitions  with  Video  Review  and upon  prior  request  of the NF, WKF  may 
authorize a Coach from a different delegation to act as a Coach for their delegation in the situations herein, provided that they comply with the dress code as established in art. 2.3.1, in order to  cover  the special circumstances arising from the need to have a Coach to request  
 Video  Review:   
Rules  Version  2026.01  16  • A NF having registered  one or more  Coaches  in Kumite  categories,  but the Coach(es) cannot 
attend  the event  due to visa problems,  transport  incidents,  sudden  health  issues or any other 
justified cause,  
• A NF that, for budgetary reasons or being part of the WKF development programme, does 
not have funds to include Kumite Coach(es) within their delegation,  
• A Refugee athlete,  or 
• A Coach  being disqualified  from  competition,  and as a result,  the Athletes  of their  NF do not 
have any Kumite Coach.  
 
3.11.3  If a NF is in any of the above -mentioned situations, and only during a World Championships, 
the OC Chair may authorize (subject to the President’s ratification) to make an exception.  
3.11.4  In official WKF events, with the exception of Youth League, it is not permitted to change the 
Coach during a bout. In team matches, it is allowed to change the Coach between bouts.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  17   
ARTICLE  4 : THE  REFEREE  PANEL  
4.1. Composition  
 
4.1.1 The Refereeing Panel for each bout shall consist of one Referee (SHUSHIN), four Judges 
(FUKUSHIN), one Match Supervisor (KANSA), a Score Supervisor, and, where video review is 
used, a Video Review Judge.  
4.1.2 The Referee,  Judges,  Match  Supervisor,  Score  Supervisor,  and Video  Review  Judge  of a Kumite 
bout must not have the nationality or be from the same National Federation of either of the participants or have any other conflict of interest. It remains the duty of any official to self-  
report on any possible conflict of interest before the bout or match starts.  
 
4.2 Referees  and Judges’  deployment  and panel  allocation  
 
4.2.1 For the eliminatory rounds, the RC Secretary will deliver to the software system technician 
handling the electronic  drawing  system  a list containing  the Referees  and Judges  available  per 
TATAMI. This list is done by the RC Secretary once the Athletes’ draw is finished and at the end of the Referees’ Briefing. This list must  only contain Referees present at the  Briefing and 
must comply with the above -mentioned criteria. Then, for the Referees draw, the software 
technician will enter the list in the system, and 4 Judges, 1 Referee, 1 Match Supervisor (KANSA), and 1 Score Supervisor  out of each TATAMI  deployment will be randomly allocated 
as Referee Panel for each bout.  
 
4.2.2 Where video  review  is used,  a Video  Review  Judge  is allocated  in the same  manner.  
 
4.2.3 For medal  bouts,  the Tatami  Managers  will provide  the RC Chairman  and Secretary  with  a list 
containing 8 officials from their own TATAMI after the last bout of the eliminatory rounds is finished. Once the list is approved by the RC Chairman, it will be given to the software technician  to be entered  into the system.  The system  will then  randomly  allocate  the Referee 
panel, which will only contain 5 out of the 8 officials from each TATAMI.  
4.3 Supporting  officials  
 
4.3.1 In addition, for facilitating the operation of bouts/matches, 1 Tatami Manager, 3 Tatami 
Manager Assistants, and 1 Score/Timekeeper shall be appointed plus 2 Kansa Assistants for checking the Athlete’s equipment and 2 Coach Supervisors in instances where t he 
configuration  of TATAMI  makes it necessary  to see the Coaches  requests for  video  review,  or 
for any other reason deemed necessary by the Chief Referee.  
4.3.2 Before  the start  of each  match  or bout,  Kansa  Assistants  will ensure  that Athletes’  equipment 
and Karategi are in accordance with the WKF rules of competition. In competitions where Kansa Assistant is not applicable or available, it is KANSA`s responsibility to ensure that the equipment is in accordance with the rules before each bout.  
 
4.4 Formalities  and change  of judges  
4.4.1 At the start  of a Kumite  match,  the Referee  stands  on the outside  edge  of the match  area.  On 
the Referee’s  left stand  Judges  numbers  1 and 2, and on the right  stand  Judges  numbers  3 and 
4. 
Rules  Version  2026.01  18  4.4.2 After  the formal exchange  of bows  by Athletes  and the Referee  panel,  the Referee takes  a step 
back, the Judges turn towards the Referee, and all bow together. All then take up their 
positions.  
 
4.4.3 When  changing the Judges,  the departing Officials,  except the Match  Supervisor,  line up, bow 
together (REI), and then leave the area.  
 
4.4.4 When individual Judges change, the incoming Judge goes to the outgoing Judge, they bow 
together and change positions.  
 
4.4.5 In Team  matches,  provided  that the entire  panel  holds  the required  qualification,  the positions 
of Referee and Judges  must  be rotated  between  each  bout.  If one or more  officials  do not hold 
the required qualification as Referee, they will remain as sitting Judges and be omitted from 
the rotation.  
 
4.5 Procedure  for refereeing  Kumite  with  only  two corner  Judges  
4.5.1 For Youth  League  competitions, the use  of only two corner Judges  is allowed. This procedure 
is described in APPENDIX 5.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  19   
ARTICLE  5 : DURATION  OF BOUT  
5.1 Duration  of the Kumite bout is: 
• Senior  Male  and Female  categories:  3 minutes  effective  time  
• Under  21 Male  and Female  categories:  3 minutes  effective  time  
• Cadet  and Junior  Male  and Female  categories:  2 minutes  effective  time  
• Under  14 years  1.5 minutes  effective time  
 
5.2 For tournaments  without  limitation  to participation,  the duration  of Elimination  bouts  may  be 
reduced  from  3 minutes  to 2 minutes  and from  2 minutes  to 1.5 minutes,  provided  that this is 
announced prior to tournament start in a meeting for both Coaches and officials.  
 
5.3 The timing of the bout starts when the Referee gives the signal to start and stops each time 
the Referee calls “YAME", when two or more judges give the electronic signal for a score, or 
at the signal for full time.  
5.4 The timekeeper shall give a signal, indicating “15 seconds to go” by one short burst with the 
buzzer,  and “time  up” by two short  bursts  with  the buzzer.  The “time  up” signal marks  the end 
of the bout.  
 
5.5 Athletes are entitled to a rest period between bouts, equal to the standard duration time of 
the bout. The exception is in the case of a change of equipment colour, where this time is extended to five minutes.  
 
 
ARTICLE  6 : KIKEN  – FAILURE  TO APPEAR  AT THE  TATAMI  
 
6.1 KIKEN  is the decision  given  when  an Athlete  or Athletes  fail to present  themselves  when  called, 
are unable  to continue,  abandon  the bout,  or are withdrawn  on the order  of the Tournament 
Doctor. The grounds for abandonment may include injury not ascribable to the opponent’s 
actions.  
6.2 Individual Athletes or Teams that do not present themselves when called will be disqualified 
(KIKEN) from  that category.  In Team  matches,  the score  for the bout  not taking  place  will then 
be set to 8 -0 (counted as YUKO) in favour of the other Team. In Individual Round -robin, the 
score for the bout will be set to 4 -0 (counted as YUKO).  
6.3 Points  earned  as a result  of the opponent’s  disqualification  are always  counted  as YUKO.  
 
6.4 Disqualification by KIKEN means that the Athletes are disqualified from that category, 
although it does not affect participation in another category.  
 
6.5 When announcing disqualification by KIKEN, the Referee will signal by pointing their finger 
towards the side of the missing Athlete or Team, announcing “AKA/AO KIKEN”, and then 
“AKA/AO no KACHI”, giving the signal for KACHI (win) for the opponent.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  20   
ARTICLE  7 : STARTING, SUSPENDING  AND  ENDING  OF MATCHES  
7.1 The terms  and gestures  to be used  by the Referee and Judges  in the operation  of a bout/match 
shall be as specified in APPENDIX 2.  
 
7.2 For each round, there will be a bowing ceremony starting with the Referee first having Athletes 
and officials face the audience and bow SHOMEN NI REI, followed by a bow to each other,  
OTAGAI NI REI. At the end of the bout(s),  the bowing  ceremony  is done  in the opposite 
sequence.  
7.3 The Referee and Judges  shall take up their  prescribed  positions  and,  following  an exchange  of 
bows between the Athletes who are positioned at the front on their assigned mats nearest 
their opponent, the Referee will announce “SHOBU HAJIME!” and the bout will commence.  
 
7.4 The Athletes must bow properly to each other at the start and the end of the bout –  a quick 
nod is both discourteous and insufficient.  
 
7.5 The Referee  will stop  the bout  by announcing “YAME”.  If necessary,  the Referee will order  the 
Athletes to take up their original positions: “MOTO NO ICHI” and return to their position.  
 
7.6 In the  case  of a score  to be awarded,  the Referee identifies  the Athlete (AKA  or AO), the area 
attacked (JODAN or CHUDAN), the technique (TSUKI, UCHI or KERI), and then awards the 
relevant score (YUKO, WAZA -ARI or IPPON) using the prescribed gesture. The Referee then 
restarts the bout by calling “TSUZUKETE HAJIME”.  
 
7.7 When an Athlete has  been  awarded a score that results in a lead of eight points  or more,  the 
bout is over.  The winner is declared by the Referee raising a hand on the side of the winner 
and declaring “AO (AKA) NO KACHI”.  
7.8 When  time  is up, the Athlete  who  has the most  points  is declared  the winner,  indicated  by the 
Referee raising a hand on the side of the winner, and declaring “AO (AKA) NO KACHI”. The bout has ended at this point.  
 
7.9 In the event of a tied score  at the end of an inconclusive  bout,  the Referee Panel  (the Referee 
and the four  Judges)  will decide  the bout  by HANTEI. The four  judges  will immediately  give the 
signal after the Referee calls for  “HANTEI” and blows the whistle. The Referee will thereafter 
raise  their  arm and declare  the winner,  “AO (AKA)  NO KACHI”,  and if necessary, by this action, 
break the tie.  
7.10 When faced with the following situations, the Referee will call “YAME!” and halt the bout temporarily:  
 
a) When either or both Athletes are out of the Competition area, with the exception of allowing an Athlete to immediately score on an opponent who has exited the competition area.  
b) When the Referee  orders  the Athlete to adjust  the KARATEGI or protective equipment.  
c) When  an Athlete has contravened  the rules.  
d) When the Referee considers that one or both of the Athletes cannot continue with the  
bout  owing to injuries,  illness  or other  causes,  in accordance  with  the Tournament 
Doctor’s opinion, the Referee will decide whether the bout should be continued.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  21  e) When  an Athlete  seizes  the opponent  and does  not perform  an immediate  technique 
or throw.  
f) When one or both Athletes fall or are thrown, and neither Athlete manages to 
immediately follow up with a scoring technique.  
g) When both Athletes seize or clinch with each other without immediately succeeding 
in executing a throw or a scoring technique, or do not immediately respond to 
WAKARETE.  
h) When both Athletes  stand  chest  to chest  without  immediately  attempting a  throw  or 
other technique and do not respond to WAKARETE.  
i) When  both  Athletes  are off their  feet following  a fall or attempted  throw  and begin  to 
wrestle.  
j) When  a score  is indicated  by two or more  Judges  for the same  Athlete.  
k) When,  in the opinion  of the Referee,  there  has been  a foul committed  – or the 
situation calls for halting the bout for safety reasons.  
l) When  requested  to do so by  KANSA  or the Tatami  Manager.  
m) When  a Coach,  or both  Coaches,  request  a video  review.  
n) For any other  reason  that the Referee deems  necessary.  
7.11 In the event that a bout starts without the time being recorded and the bout is then halted, 
and the remaining  time  is agreed  upon  between  both  coaches,  the issue  of the duration  of the 
bout can no longer be protested.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  22   
ARTICLE  8 : SCORING  
8.1 A score  is awarded  to an Athlete when  two or more  judges  indicate  a score  or when  the Video 
Review Judge agrees on a score after a Coach has raised a Video Request.  
 
8.2 Points  are scored  by a traditional karate  technique  with  the hand  or foot executed  with  control 
to the scoring area.  
8.3 Only  the first correctly  executed  technique  of an exchange  will score,  with  the exception  of an 
effective combination of techniques, in which case the highest scoring technique will count 
regardless of the sequence of techniques in the combination.  
 
8.4 The scoring  areas  are the body  above  the pelvis,  up to and including the collarbone  (CHUDAN), 
excluding the junction  of the upper  bone  of the arm with  the shoulder  blades  and collarbones, 
and the area above the collarbone (JODAN).  
 
8.5 In order to be considered a score, the technique must have the potential to be effective if it 
had not been controlled, and must also fulfil the criteria of:  
1) Good  form  (Properly  executed  technique).  
2) Sporting attitude  (Delivered  without  intent to cause  injury).  
3) Vigorous  application  (Delivery  with  speed  and power).  
4) Maintaining  awareness  of the opponent  both during and after  execution  of the technique 
(Not  turning away  or falling  down  after completing a technique  – unless  the fall is caused 
by a foul by the opponent).  
5) Good  timing  (Delivery  of the technique  at the correct  moment).  
6) Correct  distance  (Delivery  at a distance  where  the technique  would  be effective).  
 
In order  to be a valid  score,  a technique  has to fulfil all the six scoring  criteria.  
8.6 The following  scale  is used  for awarding  of points:  
• YUKO  (1 point)  is awarded  for TSUKI  (straight punch)  or UCHI  (strike)  to a scoring  area.  
• WAZA  ARI (2 points)  is awarded  for CHUDAN  kicks.  
• IPPON  (3 points)  is awarded  for JODAN  kicks  or any legal technique  against  an opponent 
whose any part of the body other than the feet is in contact with the mat, with the exception of HIZA GAMAE (One knee touching the mat while executing a technique).  
 
8.7 Techniques to the CHUDAN area may be delivered with controlled impact without causing injury 
to the opponent. A loss of breath by the recipient of a blow does not in itself indicate lack of control.  
8.8 Techniques  to the JODAN  area can score  when  stopped  within  5 cm of the target  for kicks  and 
2 cm for hand  techniques,  but may  be delivered  with  light  touch  (skin  touch),  without  causing 
impact,  with  the exception  of the throat  area,  where  no physical  contact  is allowed.  For Cadet 
and U14 competitions, techniques to the JODAN area can score when stopped within 10 cm 
of the target for kicks and 5 cm for hand techniques, but may be delivered with light touch 
(skin touch), without causing impact.  
 
8.9 “Skin touch” is allowed in all age categories. “Skin touch” is defined as touching the target without transferring energy into the protected helmet or head 
of the Athlete.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  23  8.10 Correctly  executed  techniques  landed  at the moment  the time  runs  out are valid.  When  using 
electronic judging, points must be signalled within 1.5 seconds of time expiring.  
 
8.11 A technique  is invalid  if: 
a) Executed  after the time -up signal or the Referee calling  “YAME”.  
b) Executed  upon  or after “WAKARETE”  before  “TSUZUKETE”  has been  called.  
c) Executed  when  the performer  is outside  the competition  area (JOGAI).  
d) Followed  by a foul of excessive  contact  or otherwise causing injury.  
e) One turns  one’s  back  to the opponent  after a technique  (lack  of awareness).  
f) It is executed after  a violation of the rules (such as excessive contact, holding, grabbing, 
etc.)  meaning that one cannot use a foul to create the opening for a score .
Rules  Version  2026.01  24   
ARTICLE  9 : PROHIBITED  BEHAVIOUR  
9.1 Types  of prohibited behaviour  
 
9.1.1 The following  behaviours  are prohibited:  
1) Techniques that make excessive contact, having regard to the scoring area attacked,  
and techniques that make contact with the throat.  
2) Attacks  to the arms,  legs,  groin,  joints, or instep.  
3) Attacks  to the face with  open -hand  techniques.  
4) Techniques  executed  after “WAKARETE”  and before  “TSUZUKETE”  have  been  called.  
5) Dangerous  or forbidden  throwing techniques.  
6) Feigning or exaggerating  injury.  
7) Exit from  the competition  area  (JOGAI)  not caused  by the opponent  or following  a score.  
8) Self-endangerment by indulging in behaviour  that exposes the Athlete to injury by the 
opponent, or failing to take adequate measures for self- protection (MUBOBI).  
9) Avoiding combat as a means of preventing the opponent from having the opportunity 
to score.  
10) Passivity  – not attempting  to engage  in combat  (Cannot  be given in the first 15 seconds 
of the bout,  after there  are less than  15 seconds  left of the bout,  or to someone  having 
a lead by points or SENSHU).  
11) Clinching, wrestling, pushing, or standing chest to chest without attempting a scoring 
technique or takedown.  
12) Grabbing the opponent with both hands for any reason other than executing a 
takedown upon catching the opponent’s kicking leg.  
13) Grabbing the opponent’s arm or Karategi with one hand without immediately attempting a scoring technique or takedown.  
14) Techniques,  which  by their  nature,  cannot  be controlled  for the safety  of the opponent 
and dangerous and uncontrolled attacks.  
15) Simulated  or actual attacks  with  the head,  knees,  or elbows.  
16) Kicking  techniques  against  a downed  opponent  who  is lying  flat on the floor.  
17) Talking to, or goading the opponent, failing to obey the orders of the Referee, discourteous behaviour towards the Refereeing officials, or other violations of etiquette.  
 
9.1.2 An Athlete who delivers a scoring technique and then exits the area before the Referee calls 
“YAME” will be given the value of the score and JOGAI will not be imposed. If the Athlete’s attempt to score is unsuccessful, the exit will be recorded as a JOGAI.  
9.1.3 An Athlete staying  within  the TATAMI  can score  on an opponent  that is exiting,  or has exited, 
provided that the Athlete making the score remains within the TATAMI at the moment of 
scoring. In such instances, the Athlete scored upon will not receive JOGAI.  
9.1.4 A Referee may, based solely on their own Judgement, ban from the competition floor any 
Coach failing to conform to proper conduct, or that, in the opinion of the Referee, interferes 
with  the orderly  conduct  of the bout,  and postpone  the continuation  of a bout  until  the Coach 
complies.  The same  authority  of the Referee  extends  to the compliance  of other  members  of 
the Athlete’s entourage present on the competition floor. Coaches banned from the competition are not allowed to coach or guide the Athletes, in or out of the field of play.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  25  9.1.5 Only the Coach designated for that specific bout is allowed to coach and guide the Athlete 
from  the place  allocated  to the Coach,  close to  the competition  area.  All other  registered  and 
accredited Coaches, or other registered member of the delegation, attending the 
Championships  are not allowed  to interfere,  coach  and/or  guide the  Athlete during the  same 
bout at the risk of having their accreditation withdrawn.  
 
9.1.6 Instructions and comments from the Coach must not interfere with the proceedings. The 
Coach  may  freely  speak  to the Athlete when  the match  is halted,  but must at  all times  refrain 
from commenting on judgements.  
9.1.7 The Athlete may  discreetly  signal to the Coach  the wish  for them  to request  a video  review.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  26   
ARTICLE  10 :  WARNINGS  & PENALTIES  
10.1 Informal  Warnings  
 
10.1.1 Informal warnings are used to facilitate the continuity of action without stopping the bout. 
They are  not meant to  replace  formal warnings  when  these are appropriate,  and the Referee 
should proceed with formal warnings or penalties as appropriate if the Athletes do not react 
upon the informal warning.  
10.1.2 There are two types  of Informal Warnings:  
 
TSUZUKETE  
for encouraging  activity  To urge the Athletes to commence activity by gesturing in the same  way as is customary  for making  the Athletes  stepping on to 
the TATAMI, combined with the instruction “TSUZUKETE”.  
 
WAKARETE  
for breaking up a clinch  To break -up a clinch, using the same gesture as  is customary for 
making the Athletes step back on the TATAMI combined with giving the order “WAKARETE” to temporarily stop the action without stopping the clock. The Athletes must separate –  after 
which the order “TSUZUKETE” is given for resuming action.  
  
10.1.3 When WAKARETE is called when an Athlete is cornered, the Referee must ensure that the 
other Athlete withdraws sufficiently to disengage before TSUZUKETE is called.  
10.1.4 TSUZUKTETE, unless preceded by WAKARETE, is not used if there is less than 15 seconds left 
of the bout.  
 
10.1.5 An otherwise correctly executed technique will not be given a score if executed at the same 
time  as WAKARETE has been  called,  but will not be penalised.  An uncontrolled  technique  will 
be subject to warning or penalty in the normal manner.  
 
10.2 Official  Warnings  
10.2.1 There  are two degrees  of official warnings  - CHUI  and HANSOKU  CHUI:  
 
CHUI  
Warning  is given, up to three times, for smaller infractions that do not  
diminish the other Athlete’s chances of winning.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Rules  Version  2026.01  27  10.3 Penalties  
 
10.3.1 There are two kinds  of penalties,  which  are two different  levels  of disqualification:  
 
HANSOKU  
Disqualification  from the bout.  
 This is the penalty  of disqualification  following  a 
very  serious infraction or when HANSOKU CHUI has 
already been given  
HANSOKU  CHUI  
Warning of disqualification  in the event of further 
infractions  Is given for more serious infractions that reduces 
the other Athlete’s chances of winning or to an 
Athlete for any further infraction if three CHUI has already been given.  
 
SHIKKAKU  
Disqualification  from the tournament.  
 This is a disqualification from the entire 
tournament including any subsequent category the offender may have been registered for. SHIKKAKU may be invoked when an Athlete fails to obey the orders of the Referee, acts 
maliciously,  or commits  an act, which  harms  the 
prestige  and honour of Karate.  
 
10.3.2 In instances where both AKA and AO are disqualified in the same bout by HANSOKU or SHIKKAKU, 
the opponents scheduled for the next round will win by bye (and no result is announced).  
 
10.3.3 Serious  violation  of conduct,  discipline,  or malicious  behaviour  on or outside  the competition area 
by the Athlete or their entourage may cause further disciplinary action from the WKF Disciplinary Commission or Executive Committee.  
 
10.3.4 When a situation appears to possibly warrant a disqualification, the Referee can call one or more judges for a brief consultation (SHUGO) before announcing any decision. SHUGO is obligatory before imposing disqualifications based on time -wasting situations  or in order to impose 
SHIKKAKU.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  28   
10.4 Warning  and penalty  application 
 
10.4.1 Excessive contact : Where contact  is considered  by the Referee  to be too strong,  but does  not 
diminish the Athlete’s chances of winning, a warning (CHUI) may be given.  
 
10.4.2 Contact  causing  injury : Any technique  that results  in injury  can, unless  caused  by the recipient, 
cause a warning or penalty. The Athletes must perform all techniques with control and good 
form.  If they cannot,  then  regardless  of the technique  misused,  a warning  or penalty  must be 
imposed.  
10.4.3 Observation after  contact:  The Referee  must  continue  to observe  the injured  Athlete until  the 
bout is  resumed  and allow  adequate  time for observation.  A short delay in giving a judgment 
allows  injury  symptoms  such  as a nosebleed  to develop  or reveal any efforts  by the Athlete to 
aggravate a slight injury for tactical advantage.  
 
10.4.4 Overreaction to contact: A slight overreaction will receive a CHUI. An obvious display of 
exaggeration will receive a HANSOKU CHUI. A more serious exaggeration, such as staggering 
around, falling on the floor, standing up and falling down again, and so on, may receive 
HANSOKU dire ctly. 
10.4.5 Feigning an injury : Any instance  of feigning  an injury,  however  slight,  will receive  a minimum 
warning of CHUI, while an obvious display of feigning will receive a HANSOKU CHUI. A more 
serious  display  of feigning,  such  as feigning  around,  falling  on the floor,  standing up and falling 
down again, and so on, will receive SHIKKAKU directly. Any feigning of an injury from a 
technique  that in fact has been  determined  by the judges  as a point  will, as a minimum,  result 
in HANSOKU CHUI.  
10.4.6 Contact  to the throat:  Any contact  to the throat,  unless  received  by the recipient’s  own  fault, 
must result in a warning or penalty.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  29  10.4.7 Throwing techniques are divided into two types. The established “conventional” karate leg 
sweeping techniques such as De Ashi Barai, Ko Uchi Gari, etc., where the opponent is swept 
off-balance or thrown without being grabbed first -  and those throws requiring that the 
opponen t be grabbed by one hand or held as the throw is executed. Both are allowed.  
 
10.4.8 The pivotal point of  the throw  must  not be above  the thrower’s hip level, and the opponent 
must be  held  onto  throughout,  so that a safe landing can be made.  Over  the shoulder throws 
are expressly forbidden, as are so -called “sacrifice” throws.  
10.4.9 Catching a kick: The only instance where a throw may be performed while holding onto the 
opponent  with  both hands  is when  trapping the opponent’s  kicking  leg. Holding on with  both 
hands  is only  permitted  when  grabbing an opponent’s  kicking  leg for the purpose  of executing 
a takedown,  and then  holding on to the opponent’s  leg while  the other  grabs  the opponent’s 
Karategi or body to break the fall.  
 
10.4.10 Grabbing the legs: It is forbidden to grab the opponent below the waist and lift and throw 
him/her or to reach down to pull the legs from under him/her. If an Athlete is injured as a result  of a throwing technique,  the Referee will decide  whether  a warning  or penalty  is called 
for. 
10.4.11 One  hand grabbing: The Athlete may  seize  the opponent’s  arm or Karategi  with  one hand  for 
the purpose  of executing  a throw  or a direct  scoring  technique  – but may  not keep  holding on 
for continuous techniques.  
 
10.4.12 Holding on  to break  a fall: Holding on to the opponent’s  Karategi with  one hand  is permitted 
to break a fall.  
10.4.13 Exiting  the competition  area: JOGAI  relates  to a situation  where  an Athlete's  foot,  or any other 
part of the body,  touches  the floor outside  of the competition  area.  An exception  is when  the 
Athlete  is physically  pushed  or thrown  from  the area  by the opponent  or is exiting  after having 
scored.  
 
10.4.14 Self endangerment: A warning  or penalty  for MUBOBI  is given  when  an Athlete is hit or injured 
through their own fault or negligence. This may be caused by turning their back on the opponent, attacking without regard for the opponent’s counterattack, stopping fighting 
before the Referee calls “YAME”, dropping the guard or repeated failure or  refusal to block 
the opponent’s attacks.  
If an Athlete has been asked before the bout starts, and confirms  wearing  a groin guard, and 
it later proves  that this is not so, the Athlete will receive SHIKKAKU.  If the Athlete  has not been 
asked, but it is discovered that the Athlete does not wear a groin guard, the Athlete will be 
given two (2) minutes to correct the matter and will automatically receive a warning for 
MUBOBI.  
 
10.4.15 Passivity refers to situations where neither Athlete makes attempts to score, or a single 
Athlete does  not attempt  to score  despite  being behind  on points  or the opponent  has a lead 
because of SENSHU. The Referee, before stopping the bout to give passivity, must first 
announce TSUZEKETE as an informal warning, using the appropriate signal and command. 
Passivity cannot be given during the first or last 15 seconds of a bout.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  30  10.4.16 Avoiding Combat refers to a situation where an Athlete attempts to prevent the opponent 
from having the opportunity to score by using time -wasting behaviour such as constantly 
retreating without an effective counter, holding, clinching, or exiting the competition area 
rather than allowing the opponent an opportunity to score. Avoiding combat during the last 
15 seconds of the bout (ATO SHIBARAKU) will, as a minimum, result in HANSOKU CHUI and 
loss of SENSHU.  
 
10.4.17 Not following instructions: An Athlete who refuses to follow the instructions of the Referee 
or displays  a loss of temper  will automatically  receive  SHIKKAKU.  This penalty  may  be imposed 
before, during or after the bout.  
10.5. Excessive celebration,  political or religious demonstration: Athletes  are expected to  respect 
the ceremony of salutations before and after the bout or match. Any excessive celebration, 
such as falling on one’s knees, etc., political or religious expressions, during or immediately after the bout or match, are prohibited and may be subject to  a fine equal to the amount 
determined by the Executive Committee for the protest fee.  
10.6 Disqualification of individual  Athletes  in Team  matches  
 
10.6.1 HANSOKU  or SHIKKAKU:  In Team  matches,  the offended  Athlete’s  score  will be set at 8 points, 
and the offender’s score will be zeroed.  
 
10.7 Disqualification in Round- robin  competition.  
 
10.7.1 If an Athlete receives HANSOKU, KIKEN or SHIKKAKU in a Round -robin bout, the offender’s 
score for the bout is set to zero while the opponent’s score is set to the higher of 4 points  or 
points earned by techniques. Points scored by techniques retain their original value as respectively IPPON, WAZA -ARI or  YUKO.  Points  added other than scored  are all  measured as 
YUKO.  
 
10.7.2 If an Athlete receives KIKEN or SHIKKAKU in Round -robin competition, all previous bouts are 
voided  from  the result  unless  it is the last scheduled  bout  for the disqualified  Athlete,  in which 
case the result of the bout is recorded in the usual manner without consequence for the results of the previous bouts.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  31   
ARTICLE  11 :  INJURIES  AND  ACCIDENTS IN COMPETITION  
11.1 Athletes  declared unfit  to fight  
 
11.1.1 An injured Athlete who wins a bout through disqualification due to injury is not allowed to 
fight again in the competition without permission from the tournament doctor. No such 
permission can be given to an Athlete who has suffered a loss of consciousness  or otherwise 
has any symptoms of concussion.  
11.1.2  An injured  Athlete,  permitted  to continue,  may  also win a second  bout  by disqualification  due 
to injury,  but is immediately  withdrawn  from  further  Kumite  competition  in that tournament.  
 
11.2 Procedure  for handling  injuries  
 
11.2.1 When an Athlete is injured, the Referee shall at once halt the bout and call the doctor by 
raising his hand and verbally call out “doctor”.  
11.2.2 If physically able  to do  so, the injured Athlete  should be directed  off the mat for examination 
and treatment by the doctor.  
 
11.2.3 An Athlete who is injured during a bout in progress and requires medical treatment will be 
allowed  three  minutes  in which  to receive  it. The Tatami  Manager  is responsible  for instructing 
the timekeeper to start the 3 -minute count. If treatment is not completed within the time 
allowed, the Referee will decide if the Athlete shall be declared unfit to fight, or whether an 
extension of treatment time shall be given.  
 
11.2.4 10-second rule: Any Athlete who lies flat on the floor after a fall, being thrown, or knocked 
down, and does not fully  regain their feet  within ten  seconds,  is considered unfit to  continue 
fighting and will be automatically withdrawn from all Kumite events in that tournament. In the  
event that an Athlete lies flat on the floor after a fall, being thrown,  or knocked  down  and does 
not regain their feet immediately, the Referee will stop the match, call the doctor, and at the 
same time start a verbal count to ten in the English language, indicating his count by showing  
a finger for each  second.  In all cases  where  the 10 second  count  has been  started  the doctor  
will be asked  to examine  the Athlete  before  the bout  can resume.  For incidents  falling under 
this 10 -second rule, the Athlete may be examined on the mat. The Tatami Manager must 
notify the central table when an Athlete has been stopped from further competition based on 
the 10 -second rule.  
11.2.5 The tournament doctor is authorised to give an opinion on the injured Athlete’s fitness for 
continuation only. The Referee will decide the winner on the basis of HANSOKU, KIKEN, or 
SHIKKAKU as the case may be.  
 
11.2.6 The Referee must be aware of pre- existing injuries when evaluating to what degree the 
present state of injury could be attributed to actions by the opponent. The opponent should 
not be penalized for any pre -existing condition.  
 
11.2.7 Should an Athlete in Round- robin competition have to withdraw because of injury, all 
previous bouts are voided from the result unless it is the last scheduled bout for the injured Athlete, in which case the result of the bout is recorded in the usual manner without 
consequence for the results of the previous bouts.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  32  11.3 Injury  to both  Athletes  
 
If two Athletes  injure  each  other  or are suffering  from  the effects  of previously  incurred  injury 
and are declared by the Tournament Doctor to  be unable to continue, the bout  is decided as 
one normally would at full time.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  33    
ARTICLE  12 :  CRITERIA  FOR  DECISION  
12.1 General  
 
12.1.1 When two  or more Judges  signal a score for the same  Athlete,  the Referee  will stop the bout 
and render the decision accordingly. Should the Referee fail to stop the bout, the Match 
Supervisor  will blow their  whistle.  When  the Referee  decides  to halt the bout for  any reason, 
they will call “YAME” at the same time using the required hand signal.  
12.1.2 In the event that both Athletes have a score signalled by two Judges, both Athletes will be 
awarded their respective points.  
 
12.1.3 If one Athlete has a score indicated by more than one Judge, and the score is different 
between  the Judges,  the higher  score  will be applied.  The same  applies  if there  are two judges 
for each Athlete with different scores.  
 
12.1.4 If there is a majority,  but disagreement,  among  the Judges  for one level  of score,  the majority 
opinion will always overrule the principle of applying the highest score.  
12.1.5 When  explaining  the basis  for a decision  after the bout  or match,  the Referee Panel  may  speak 
to the Tatami Manager, the Chief Referee, or the Appeals Jury. They will explain themselves to no one else.  
 
12.2 Criteria  for deciding  the winner  of a bout  
 
12.2.1 The result  of a bout is  determined  by an  Athlete obtaining a clear lead  of 8 points,  at time -up 
having the highest number of points; at equal score, having the first unopposed point advantage (SENSHU); obtaining a decision by HANTEI or by a HANSOKU, SHIKKAKU, or KIKEN 
imposed against an opponent.  
12.2.2 By first unopposed  score  advantage  (SENSHU),  it is understood  that one Athlete  has achieved 
the first instance of scoring on the opponent without having the opponent also score before 
the signal.  In instances  where  both Athletes  score  before  the signal,  and there is an indication 
of score by two judges for each of the two Athletes, no ‘first unopposed score advantage’ is awarded, and both Athletes retain the possibility of SENSHU later in the bout.  
 
12.2.3 In any individual  bout  (Individual,  Round -robin,  and Teams)  where  no superior  score  has been 
obtained  by either  Athlete,  or the score  is equal  without  any Athlete having a ‘first  unopposed 
score  advantage’  (SENSHU),  the decision  will be made  based  on the following  criteria in order 
of application:  
a) The higher  number  of IPPON  scored  in the bout.  
b) The higher  number  of WAZA  ARI scored  in the bout.  
 
12.2.4 Should  the number  of IPPON  and WAZA  ARI be equal,  the decision  will be made by  HANTEI,  a 
final majority vote of the four Judges and the Referee, each casting  their vote based on their 
individual judgement of which Athlete displayed superiority of tactics and techniques. In Round -robin and Team bouts, HIKIWAKE will be given unless it is an extra bout to decide a 
match  outcome.  
12.2.5 Individual elimination bouts cannot be declared a tie, with the exceptions of Team 
competition,  or Round -robin  competition,  when  a bout  ends  with  no scores, equal  scores, no 
Rules  Version  2026.01  34   superiority  in IPPON  or WAZA  ARI, and neither  Athlete has obtained  SENSHU,  the Referee  will 
announce a tie (HIKIWAKE).  
 
12.2.6 The only time HANTEI is applied to a bout in Team competition is for an additional bout to 
break a tie.  
 
12.2.7 When deciding the outcome of a bout by vote (HANTEI) at the end of an inconclusive bout, 
the Referee will move to the competition area perimeter and call “HANTEI”, followed by a 
blast of the whistle. The Judges will signal their opinions, and the Referee w ill declare the 
winner. The Referee will then indicate the winner by hand signal and the order (AKA/AO NO K 
ACHI), and by this action also resolve any tie.  
12.2.8 Should an Athlete  who has  been awarded SENSHU  receive  a warning for  avoiding combat  for 
the following incidents: JOGAI, running away, clinching, grabbing, wrestling, pushing or 
standing chest to chest when there is less than 15 seconds left of the bout –  the Athlete will 
automatically forfeit this advantage. The Referee will then first sh ow the type of infraction and 
type of warning or penalty the Athlete did, then show the sign for SENSHU, followed by the 
sign for annulment (TORIMASEN) and at the same time  announcing “AKA/AO SENSHU 
TORIMASEN”.  
 
12.2.9 In cases  where  SENSHU  has been  awarded,  but a successful  video  request  determines  that 
the other opponent also scored, and that a score in fact is not unopposed, the same 
procedure is used for nullification of SENSHU.  
 
 
12.2.10 If SENSHU is withdrawn when it is less than 15 seconds left of the bout, no  further SENSHU 
can be awarded to either Athlete.  
 
 
12.2.11 In instances  of Elimination  competition,  where  both AKA and AO are disqualified  in the same 
bout by  HANSOKU,  KIKEN  or SHIKKAKU,  the opponents scheduled  for the next  round will  win 
by bye (and no result is announced), unless the double disqualification applies to a medal bout, in which case the winner will be declared based on the scores at the moment of disqualification,  SENSHU,  or if none  of these  conditions  are present;  by direct  HANTEI. 
No medal can be awarded to an Athlete disqualified by SHIKKAKU.  
12.3 Determining  the winner  of a round- robin  group  and resolving ties in individual  competition  
12.3.1 The winner of a group in Individual round robin -competition, is the Athlete having  the most 
victory points gained by 3 points for won bouts and 1 victory Point for draws, where points 
are scored.  In cases  where  there is a tie between  two or more  Athletes  in a group,  having the 
same  number  of victory  Points, the  criteria below  will be applied in the  specified  order. This 
means that if a winner is found after one of the criteria, the following criteria will not have to 
be applied.  
 
1) Winner  of the bout  between  the Athletes  involved  in the tie. 
2) Higher  number  of total  scores  obtained  in favour  through  all bouts.  
3) Lower  number  of total  scores against  through  all bouts.  
4) Higher  number  of IPPON  obtained  in favour  through  all bouts.  
5) Lower  number  of IPPON  against  through  all bouts.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  35   6) Higher  number  of WAZA  ARI obtained  in favour through  all bouts.  
7) Lower  number  of WAZA  ARI against through  all bouts.  
8) The highest  World  Ranking at the  date  of the competition.  
9) Extra  bout  allowing  HANTEI.  
For each  pair compared,  the criteria must  be considered  from  the beginning of the list. 
 
12.3.2 It is possible for an Athlete to be disqualified from a bout (HANSOKU) and continue the 
competition. In this case, their opponent wins that bout by either 4 -0 (counted as YUKO) or 
for any score obtained exceeding 4 points.  
12.3.3  If an already qualified Athlete is disqualified for misconduct (SHIKKAKU) at the end of the 
Round -robin  round,  the -final opponent  will advance  to the semi -final by bye ("walkover").  
 
 
12.4 Determining  the winner  of a Round- robin  group  and resolving  ties,  in Team  competition  
 
12.4.1 The winner  of a group in  Team  Round -robin competition is  the Team having the  most  victory 
Points gained by 3 points for won matches and 1 point for draws  where points are scored. In 
cases where there is a tie between two or more Teams in a group, having the same number of victory  Points,  the criteria below will be applied in  the specified  order.  This means that  if a 
winner is found after one of the criteria, the following criteria will not have to be applied.  
1) Winner  of the match  between  teams  involved  in tie. 
2) Highest  number  of bouts  won  during the entire  Round -robin  phase.  
3) Largest  number  of points  scored  during the entire  Round -robin  phase.  
4) Least  number  of points  scored  against  the Team  during entire  the Round -robin  phase.  
5) Largest  number  of IPPON  scored  by the Team  during the entire  Round -robin  phase.  
6) Least  number  of IPPON  scored  against  the Team  during the entire  Round -robin  phase.  
7) Largest  number  of WAZA  ARI scored  by the Team during the entire Round -robin  phase.  
8) Least  number  of WAZA  ARI scored  against  the Team  during the entire  Round -robin  phase.  
9) An additional  bout  between  one of the members  of each  Team  – if necessary,  decided  by 
HANTEI.  
For each  pair compared,  the criteria must  be considered  from  the beginning of the list. 
 
12.5 Criteria  for deciding  the winner  of a Team  match  using  Elimination  
 
12.5.1 The winning Team is the one with the most bout victories, including those won by SENSHU. 
Should the two Teams have the same number of bout victories, then the winning Team will be the one with the most points.  
 
12.5.2 If the two Teams have the same number of bout victories and points, then a deciding bout will 
be held. Each Team may nominate any one Athlete of their Team for the purpose of fighting the extra bout, regardless of whether that Athlete has already fought in  a previous bout 
between the two Teams. In mixed teams with weight categories competition, the weight categories and gender of the extra bout will be determined by drawing.  
 
12.5.3 If the extra bout does not produce a winner based on superiority on points, nor any of the 
Athletes receive SENSHU, the extra bout will be decided based on HANTEI according to the same procedure as for individual bouts.  The result  of the HANTEI for the extra bout will then 
also determine the result of the Team match.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  36   12.5.4 In Team matches, when a Team has won sufficient bout victories or scored sufficient points to 
be the established winner, then the  match is declared over, and no further bouts will take 
place, except in Round -robin, where all bouts must be fought.  
 
12.5.5 In Team  matches,  should  a Team  member  be disqualified  (HANSOKU  or SHIKKAKU),  their  score 
for that bout, if any, will be zeroed, and the opponent’s score will be set at eight points.  
 
12.6 Scorekeeping  
The Score  Supervisor  will use the following  symbols  for registration  of points:  
 
3 IPPON  Three -point  score  
2 WAZA  ARI Two -point  score  
1 YUKO  One-point  score  
 
u  SENSHU  First  unopposed  point  advantage  
□ KACHI  Winner  
X  MAKE  Loser  
 
 HIKIWAKE  Draw  
KK KIKEN  Renunciation  (absence)  
 
1C CHUI  (first  instance)  1st warning  
2C CHUI  (second  instance)  2nd warning  
3C CHUI  (third  instance)  3rd warning  
HC HANSOKU  CHUI  Warning  of disqualification  
H HANSOKU  Disqualification  from  bout  
S SHIKKAKU  Disqualification  from  tournament  

Rules  Version  2026.01  37    
ARTICLE  13 :  OFFICIAL  PROTEST  
13.1 General  provisions  
 
13.1.1 No one may  protest about  a Judgement  to the members  of the Refereeing  Panel.  
 
13.1.2 If a Refereeing  procedure  appears  to contravene  the rules,  the Athlete’s  Coach  or their  official 
representative are the only ones allowed to make a protest.  
13.1.3 The protest will take the form of a written report submitted immediately after the bout in 
which the protest was generated. The sole exception is when the protest concerns an 
administrative malfunction.  
 
13.1.4 Any protest concerning application of the rules must  not necessarily impede the progression 
of the competition, and the intent to protest must be announced by the Coach or NF 
representative immediately after the end of the bout.  
 
13.1.5 If the protest involves  Athletes  in an ongoing category,  then  the next  round  that could  involve 
the Athletes must be postponed until the appeal is decided.  
 
13.1.6 The Coach  / NF representative will request  the official protest form  from  the Tatami  Manager. 
The written  protest must  be completed,  and the protest  fee submitted,  within  5 minutes  after 
receiving the protest form from the Tatami Manager.  
 
13.1.7 Failure of a Coach / NF representative to deliver a protest in a timely manner can lead to its 
rejection if such delay, in the opinion of the Appeals Jury, is without reasonable justification 
and impedes the progression of the competition.  
13.1.8 The Tatami Manager will complete any information regarding implicated officials and 
immediately hand the completed protest form to a representative of the Appeals Jury. The Appeals Jury will, without delay, review the circumstances leading to the protested  decision. 
Having considered all the facts available, they will produce a report and shall be  empowered 
to take such  action  as may  be called  for. The protest  will be reviewed  by the Appeals  Jury,  and 
as part of this review, the Jury will study the evidence  available in support of the protest.  
 
13.1.9 The protest may also be directly decided and announced to the Appeals Jury by the RC 
Chairman  or the Chief Referee  of the event,  in which  case  no payment  of a protest  fee will be 
applicable.  
13.1.10 In case of an administrative malfunction during a bout in progress, the Coach can notify the 
Tatami Manager directly. In turn, the Tatami Manager will notify the Match Supervisor (KANSA).  
 
13.1.11 The protest must  give the name  and country  of the Athletes  and the precise  details  of what  is 
being protested.  The information  of officials  implicated  is completed  by the Tatami Manager. 
No general claims  about  overall standards  will be accepted  as a legitimate  protest.  The burden 
of proving the validity  of the protest lies with  the complainant.  The protest must  be submitted 
to a representative of the Appeals Jury by the Tatami Manager. In due course, the Jury will 
review the circumstances leading to the protested decision.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  38   13.1.12 The protester  must  deposit  a Protest Fee as agreed  by the WKF  EC, and this,  together  with  the 
protest,  must  be given to the Tatami  Manager,  who  will turn  it over  to a representative of the 
Appeals Jury.  
 
13.1.13 The intent to protest must be declared as soon as the bout is finished. The written protest 
must be completed, and the protest fee submitted, within 5 minutes after receiving the 
protest form from the Tatami Manager.  
13.1.14 The decision of the Appeals Jury is final and may only be overruled by a decision of the 
Executive Committee upon request of the WKF President.  
 
13.1.15 The Appeals Jury may not impose sanctions or penalties. Their function is to pass judgment on 
the merit of the protest to start required actions from the RC and OC to take remedial action 
to rectify any Refereeing procedure found to contravene the rules.  
 
13.2 Composition  of the Appeals  Jury 
13.2.1 The Appeals Jury is comprised of three Senior Referee representatives appointed by the 
Referee Commission  (RC) or the Chief Referee. No  two members  may be  appointed from the 
same National Federation. They will be numbered from 1 to 3.  
 
13.2.2 The RC will also appoint three additional members with designated numbering from 4 to 6 
that automatically will replace any of the originally appointed Appeals Jury members in a conflict -of-interest situation. i.e., where the jury member is of the same nationality, has a 
family relationship by blood or as an In -Law with any of the parties involved or any other 
reasonable conflict or potential conflict of interest in the protested incident, including all 
members of the Refereeing panel involved in the protes ted incident.  
13.3 Appeals  Evaluation Process  
 
13.3.1 It is the responsibility of the Tatami Manager to receive the protest, to gather the Appeals 
Jury, and deposit the protest sum with WKF for any declined protest.  
 
13.3.2 The Appeals Jury will immediately make such inquiries and investigations as they consider 
necessary to validate the merit of the protest.  
 
13.3.3 Where video  review is  used, the  Appeals Jury  may request to  examine  the video  recording  of 
the incident before rendering a verdict.  
 
13.3.4 Each of the three members is obliged to give their verdict as to the validity of the protest. 
Abstentions are not acceptable.  
 
13.4 Declined  and accepted protests  
 
13.4.1 If a protest  is found  invalid,  the Appeals  Jury will appoint  one of its members  to verbally  notify 
the protester that the protest has been declined, mark the original document with the word “DECLINED”, have it signed by each of the members of the Appeals Jury, and inform the protester of the decision.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  39   13.4.2 If a protest is accepted, the appeals Jury will liaise with the Organising Commission (OC) and 
the Chief Referee to take such measures as can be practically carried out to remedy the 
situation, including the possibilities of:  
• Reversing  previous  judgments  that contravene  the rules.  
• Voiding results  of the affected  rounds  from  the point  before  the incident.  
• Redoing such  bouts  that have  been  affected  by the incident.  
• Issuing a recommendation  to the RC for any involved  Judges  evaluated  for sanction.  
 
13.4.3 The responsibility rests with the Appeals Jury to exercise restraint and sound judgment in 
taking  actions that will  disturb the program  of the event in any significant  manner. Reversing 
the process of the Eliminations is a last option to secure a fair outcome.  
 
13.4.4 If the protest is accepted, the Appeals Jury will appoint one of its members who  will verbally 
notify  the protester  that the protest has been  accepted,  mark  the original document  with  the 
word “ACCEPTED”, and have it signed by each of the members of the Appeals Jury, before depositing the protest  with  the Chief  Referee, and  returning the protest fee  to the protester.  
 
13.4.5 An accepted  protest does  not mean  that a bout  or match  will automatically  be redone.  
 
13.5 Incident  report  
 
13.5.1 After handling the incident in the above prescribed manner, the Appeals Jury will meet again 
and elaborate a simple protest incident report, describing their findings and stating their reason(s) for accepting or rejecting the protest.  
 
13.5.2 The report should be signed by all three members of the Appeals Jury and submitted to the 
Chief Referee and the Organising Commission.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  40    
ARTICLE  14 :  VIDEO  REVIEW  REQUEST  
14.1 In WKF World Championships, Premier League, Olympic Games, Youth Olympic Games, 
Continental Games, World Games, and multisport games of this nature, the use of video review  of bouts  is required.  Use of video  review is  also recommended  for other  competitions 
whenever possible.  
 
14.2 The video review is initiated when a Coach raises their video review card (manually or by electronic  device  as applicable)  to signal that a possible  score  of their  Athlete  that was missed 
by the judges. If a Coach pushes the joy stick’s button and then immediately regrets it, the 
procedure will not be stopped, and the video review will take place accordingly. 
The C oach 
should stand up during the video review to make the Referee aware and avoid continuation 
of the bout if the system malfunctions.  
14.3 In competitions where Coaches are provided electronic equipment that allows requesting 
review for specifically  YUKO, WAZA ARI  or IPPON, the  Video Review Judge is  only required to 
evaluate  a possible  score  for the type  of point  requested.  The Coach  may  change  the level  of 
the score up until the Referee finishes the signal for video review.  
14.4 If the Athlete wishes  to have  the Coach  request  a video  review  or refrain  from  raising  a review, 
this must be discreetly signalled without disturbing the progress of the bout.  
 
14.5 The video review can be requested by the Coach in instances where the Judges awarded a 
lower score than, in the opinion of the Coach, should be for a higher scoring technique.  
 
14.6 The Video  Review  Judge  may  only  award  points  if the Athlete for whom  the request  was raised 
had a valid score, i.e. scoring before or simultaneously with the other Athlete.  
14.7 An exception  from  above  sub article  is when  neither  Athlete  has been  awarded  a point  by the 
corner Judges, only one of the Coaches calls a Video review, the other Coach has no card or do not wish a video request –  in which case only the techniques of the Athlete whom video 
review is called for will be considered for scoring.  
 
14.8 The last 6 seconds  before  the bout  was stopped  for the request  will always  be evaluated,  but 
additional time can be added as deemed necessary to make the best possible decision. The 
sequence  must be  reviewed  at normal speed  but can in addition  be viewed  in slow  motion  or 
zoom if necessary. The review must always first be done at full speed, although slow motion may subsequently be used to determine details. The total time used for reviewing the video is not to exceed 30 seconds, after which a decision must be rendered.  
 
14.09 If both Coaches request video review at the same time, the Video Review Judge may only award 
the point to whoever is deemed to score first.  The only exception being simultaneous scoring 
techniques, in which case points can be awarded to both Athletes.  
 
14.10  If one Coach shows the card for video review and the other Coach wants a review of the same  
instance,  the second  Coach  must  raise  his card  before  the review  starts  in order  not to lose 
his right to request video review for that instance. The video review is considered started when the Referee makes the gesture.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  41   14.11  If the request  is found  valid,  a red or blue  card,  with  the number  3 for IPPON,  2 for WAZA  ARI 
or 1 for YUKO  is raised  or the outcome  displayed  on the monitor.  The Referee  will then  award 
the score in the usual manner. If the request is found invalid, the Coach will lose the right to 
raise another video request for the remainder of the bout.  
 
 
14.12  The Video  Review  Judge  may  not overrule  any decision  by the corner  judges  with  the 
exception of SENSHU.  
14.13  If the Video  Review  Judge  is unable  to observe  the technique(s)  due to camera  angle,  they 
will signal this by doing the gesture for MIENAI, and the Coach will retain the card. In the 
case of technical problems (electricity, camera, or computer malfunctions etc.) it is not 
possible  to analyse  the video  and make  a decision,  the same  procedure  will apply,  and the 
Coach will retain the card.  
14.15  If a Coach requests VR, but in the opinion of the Referee the technique was uncontrolled or 
too hard, a warning or penalty must be applied, and the Coach will retain the card.  
 
14.16  Once  WAKARETE  is called  by the Referee,  the Coaches do not have  the opportunity  to make  a 
video request, unless the technique happened before WAKARETE was called.  
 
14.17  It remains the duty of the Coach to protest if a VR card is not returned whenever the Coach has the right to have the card returned by the Tatami Manager.  
 
14.18  The following  table  determines  the video  review  cards  allowable  per phase  for WKF  events:  
 

Rules  Version  2026.01  42   
ARTICLE  15 :  POWERS  AND  DUTIES  OF OFFICIALS  
15.1 Chief  Referee and the Referee Commission  
 
15.1.1 The Chief  Referee and the Referee Commission’s  powers  and duties  shall be as  follows:  
1) To ensure the correct preparation for each given tournament in consultation with the 
Organising  Commission,  with  regard  to competition  area  arrangement,  the provision  and 
deployment of all equipment and necessary facilities, bout/match operation and supervision, safety precautions, etc.  
2) To appoint and deploy the Tatami Managers and Tatami Manager Assistants to their 
respective areas and to act upon and take such action as may be required by the  reports 
of the Tatami Managers.  
3) To supervise  and coordinate  the overall performance  of the refereeing  officials.  
4) To nominate  substitute  officials  where  such  are required.  
5) To pass the final Judgement on matters of a technical nature which may arise during a 
given bout or match and for which there are no stipulations in the rules.  
6) To appoint  the Appeals  Jury for the competition.  
15.2 Tatami  Managers  and Tatami  Manager  Assistants  
 
15.2.1 The Tatami  Manager’s  powers  and duties  shall be as follows:  
1) To delegate,  appoint,  and supervise  the Referees and  Judges  for all bouts  and matches  in 
areas under their control.  
2) To oversee the performance  of the Referees  and Judges  in their  areas,  and to ensure  that 
the Officials appointed are capable of the tasks allotted to them.  
3) To supervise  that KANSA  stops  the bout  to instruct  the Referee regarding  a contravention 
of the Rules of Competition.  
4) To prepare  a daily,  written  report  on the performance  of each  official under  their 
supervision, together with their recommendations, if any, to the Referee Commission.  
5) To appoint one Referee with WKF Referee A Qualification to act as Video Review Judge. 
(VRJ).  
 
15.3 Referees  
 
15.3.1 The Referee’s  powers  shall be as follows:  
1) The Referee (“SHUSHIN”)  shall have  the power  to conduct  bouts/matches,  including 
announcing the start, the suspension, and the end of the bout or match.  
2) The Referee shall give all commands  and make  all announcements.  
3) To award  points  based  on the decision  of the Judges.  
4) To stop  the bout  when  an injury,  illness  or inability  of an Athlete to continue  is noticed.  
5) To stop  the bout  when,  in the Referee’s  opinion,  a foul has been  committed,  or to ensure 
the safety of the Athletes.  
6) To call FUKUSHIN SHUGO (summoning the judges) for giving SHIKKAKU and disqualification for wasting time -  or when in the opinion of the Referee it is deemed 
necessary to call FUKUSHIN SHUGO for; applying the 10 -second rule; when the doctor 
wants to withdra w an Athlete; or when directly giving HANSOKU.  
7) To indicate  fouls  observed  and impose  warnings  and penalties  as required  by the rules.  
8) To explain  to the Tatami  Manager,  Referee Commission,  or Appeals  Jury,  if necessary,  the 
basis for giving a Judgement.  
9) To announce  and start  an extra  bout  when  required  in Team matches.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  43  10) To conduct voting of the Judges, in the event of a tied bout, and if necessary, including 
their own vote (HANTEI) to break a tie.  
11) To announce  the winner.  
12) The authority  of the Referee is not confined solely  to the competition area  but also to  its 
entire  immediate  perimeter,  including controlling  the conduct  of Coaches,  other  Athletes, 
or any part of the Athletes’ entourage, present on the competition floor.  
 
15.4 Judges  
15.4.1 The Judges  (FUKUSHIN)  powers  shall be as follows:  
1) To signal points  scored  on their  own  initiative.  
2) To exercise  their  right  to vote  on any decision  to be taken.  
3) To advise  the Referee on possible  disqualifications  if called  by FUKUSHIN  SHUGO.  
 
15.4.2 The Judges shall carefully observe the actions of the Athletes and signal to the Referee an 
opinion when a score is observed.  
15.5 Match Supervisors  (KANSA)  
 
15.5.1 The Match Supervisor (KANSA) will assist the Tatami Manager by overseeing the match or bout  
in progress.  Should  decisions  of the Referee  and/or  Judges  not be in accordance  with  the Rules 
of Competition, the Match Supervisor will immediately signal by blowing their whistle.  
 
15.5.2 Records kept of the match  shall become  official records subject  to the approval  of the Match 
Supervisor.  
 
15.5.3 Before  the start  of each  match  or bout,  Kansa  Assistants will ensure  that Athletes’  equipment 
and Karategi are in accordance with the WKF rules of competition. In competitions where 
Kansa Assistant is not applicable or available, it is the responsibility of the KANSA to ensure 
that the equipment is in accordance with the rules before each bout.  
15.5.4 In the following  situations,  the Match  Supervisor  (KANSA)  will signal by blowing their  whistle:  
1) The Referee  forgets  to indicate  SENSHU.  
2) The Referee  forgets  to remove  the SENSHU.  
3) The Referee  gives a  score  to the wrong  Athlete.  
4) The Referee gives a  warning/penalty  to the wrong Athlete.  
5) The Referee  gives a score  to an Athlete and a warning for exaggeration  to the other.  
6) The Referee  gives a  score  to an Athlete and MUBOBI  to the other.  
7) The Referee gives a  score  for a technique  done  after  YAME  or after the time  is up. 
8) The Referee gives a score made by an Athlete when the Athlete is outside the fighting  
area.  
9) The Referee  gives  a warning  or penalty  for passivity  during ATO  SHIBARAKU. 
10) The Referee gives  the wrong  warning  or penalty  during ATO  SHIBARAKU.  
11) The Referee  gives  a direct  HANSOKU  CHUI  during  ATO  SHIBARAKU,  but the incident 
happened just before ATO SHIBARAKU signal.  
12) The Referee doesn’t stop the bout, and there are two or more judges signalling a point scored.  
13) The Referee  doesn’t  stop  the bout  when  a Video  Review  is requested  by a Coach.  
14) The Referee doesn’t  follow  the majority  of scores  signalled  by the judges.  
15) The Referee doesn’t  call the doctor  in a 10-second  rule situation.  
16) The Referee  does  HANTEI/HIKIWAKE,  but SENSHU  has been  obtained.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  44  17) A Judge(s)  is holding the flags  or electronic  device  in the wrong  hand.  
18) The scoreboard  is not showing  the correct  information.  
19) The technique  requested  by the Coach  was done  after  YAME  or after  the time  was up. 
20) The Referee did not observe  a JOGAI. 
21) For any other  unforeseen  situation  that reasonably  requires  the bout  to be halted.  
22) In instances where KANSA is in doubt about a verdict, KANSA has the right to check the 
video review recording.  
15.5.5 In the following  situations,  the Match  Supervisor  will not get involved  with  the Referee Panel’s 
decision:  
1) The Judges  don’t  signal for a score.  
2) KANSA has no vote or authority in matters of judgments, such as whether a score was  
valid or not, unless there has been an error in the application of the rules.  
 
15.6 Score  Supervisors  
 
15.6.1 The Score Supervisor will keep a separate record of the scores and warnings awarded by the 
Referee and, at the same time, oversee the actions of the appointed score/time- keeper.  
 
15.6.2 In the event that the Referee does not hear the time- up bell, the Score -Supervisor will blow 
his whistle, not KANSA.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  45   
ARTICLE  16 : ELIGIBILITY  TO COMPETE  
 
16.1 Age 
 
16.1.1 Allocation  of age category  is determined  by the age of the Athlete on the first day  of 
competition of the event.  
 
16.1.2 In the senior  Kumite  categories,  Athletes  must be  18 years  old. 
 
16.1.3 Participants  in Under  21 categories  must be  18, 19 or 20 years  old, Junior  categories  must  be 
16 or 17 years old, Cadet categories must be 14 or 15 years old, and Under 14 categories must 
be 12 or 13 years old.  
 
16.2 NF Quota per Event  
16.2.1 Each  National  Federation  at the Cadet,  Junior,  & U21 World  Championships,  Individual  World 
Senior Championships - ¨Final Phase¨, and the Team World Senior Championships is limited to 
1 Athlete per category.  
 
16.2.2 Specific  limitations  may  apply at  the Individual  Senior  World  Championships  - ¨Qualification 
Phase. ¨  If an NF already has a qualified athlete in  a category of the Individual Senior World 
Championships  - ¨Final Phase¨,  they  may  not register another  athlete  for the same  category 
in the Individual World Championships -  ¨Qualification Phase.  
 
16.2.3 Karate 1 -Events are open competitions where all WKF members are permitted to 
participate  without  restriction  of 1 Athlete  per NF. Notwithstanding,  participants  must  be 
members of a National Federation that is recognized by the WKF.  
16.2.4 Multi -sport Events  like the ANOC - Beach  Games, World  Games,  and Olympics  may  apply 
other criteria, to be defined in their respective Qualification System.  
 
16.3 Nationality  
 
16.3.1 With  the following  exceptions,  only  Nationals  of a country  may  take  part in  the World 
Championships and WKF official events representing their country.  
 
16.3.2 As a general rule, an Athlete who has represented one country in a WKF official event or 
World  Championships  cannot  represent  another  country  at an official  WKF  event  or a World 
Championships.  
16.3.3 Nevertheless,  if an Athlete who has  taken  part in  one of those  events  obtains  by marriage 
the nationality of the spouse, they may represent the spouse’s country.  
 
16.3.4 An Athlete who possesses dual nationality (i.e. one by virtue of the law of one country, the 
other  by virtue  of the law of another  country)  may  only  represent one or another  country  as 
the Athlete in question selects. Once having represented both countries, WKF EC approval will be necessary for a further  change,  following  a reasoned  written  demand  by the relevant 
NF to the WKF President.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  46  16.3.5 An Athlete may  represent the country  of their  birth  and of which  the Athlete is a National 
unless they opt to take the nationality of their father or mother.  
 
16.3.6 A naturalized  Athlete (or one who  has changed  their  nationality  by naturalization)  may  not 
participate in the World Championships representing their new country until three years 
after their naturalization. The period following naturalization may be reduced or even 
cancelled  with  the agreement of  the two NFs  concerned  and the final  approval  of the WKF 
EC. 
16.3.7 If an associated State, Province or Overseas Department, a Country or former Colony acquires 
independence, or a country incorporated within another country by reason of a change  of 
border,  or if a new  NF is recognized  by WKF,  an Athlete  may  continue  to represent the country  
to which  they  belong or belonged. However,  they  may  choose  to represent their new country 
or their new NF in the World Championships.  
 
16.3.8 In instances where the WKF has recognized more than 1 (one) NF for which members hold 
the same  national  passport  (i.e.,  for a country  and its protectorates  with  separate  governing 
national sporting bodies), the Athlete may only compete for the NF of residence, provided 
that has not yet competed for the other (s) NF(s) in WKF official events.  
16.3.9 In order to get the transfer to another NF of which the nationals hold the same passport, it 
will be  enough with the  agreement between the  2 (two) NFs involved  to confirm  any change 
to the WKF concerning the status of an Athlete. In case of disagreement between the NFs, any change  will have  to be approved  by the WKF  EC. In this case,  the Athlete,  through  the NF 
concerned, will have to prove to the WKF’s satisfaction the residency in the territory governed by the other NF, or failing this, the relationship w ith the other NF that makes the change 
justifiable.  
16.3.10 Once  the Athlete  has represented  all the NFs involved,  the WKF  EC approval will be 
necessary for any further change.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  47   
ARTICLE 17 : ADAPTATION  OF THESE  RULES  TO EVENTS  OUTSIDE  THE  WKF 
OFFICIAL EVENT PROGRAMME  
17.1 National Federations may modify these rules for the purpose of national competitions or other  
competitions  not on the official WKF  programme,  as long  as no alterations  are made  to rules  
pertaining  to the safety  of the Athletes,  use of protective  equipment,  scoring,  prohibited 
behaviour, warning and penalties, injuries and accidents in competition, or criteria for 
decision.  
17.2 National Federations  are encouraged  to consult  their  national sports  authorities  for guidance 
on national law and/or guidelines for competitive sports for children under 12 years of age.  
 
17.3 Any deviation  from  the Competition  Rules  applied  to a competition  must  be announced  in the 
official bulletin or invitation to the event.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  48   
ARTICLE  18 : ISSUES  NOT  SPECIFICALLY  COVERED  BY THE  RULES  
 
From time to time, situations may occur where the rules fall short of giving specific instructions to 
resolve  an issue.  In such  instances,  the Chief Referee  for the competition  has the authority  to resolve 
the issue  by applying analogous  resolutions  to similar cases  found  in the rules  or their  best  judgment. 
Before making a decision, the Chief Referee may consult the assigned WKF Representative for the 
tournament  or escalate  the issue  to the Sports  Commissioner  for consultation  before taking  a decision.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  49  APPENDIX  1: THE TERMINOLOGY  
 
SHOBU  HAJIME  Start  the Match  or Bout  After  the announcement,  the Referee  takes  a step  back.  
ATO  SHIBARAKU  A little  more  time  left An audible  signal  will be given by  the timekeeper  15 seconds  before  the 
  actual  end of the bout  and the Referee  will announce  “Ato  Shibaraku”.  
YAME  Stop  Interruption,  or end of the bout.  As they  make  the announcement,  the 
  Referee  makes  a downward  chopping  motion  with  his hand.  
MOTO  NO ICHI Original  position  Athletes  and Referee  return  to their  starting  positions.  
TSUZUKETE  Fight  on Resumption  of fighting  ordered  after  WAKARETE,  when  an unauthorised  
  interruption  occurs  – or when  the Referee  gives  an informal  order  to 
  commence  fighting  due to lack of activity  
TSUZUKETE  HAJIME  Resume  fighting  – Begin  The Referee  stands  in a forward  stance.  As they  says  “Tsuzukete”  they 
  extend  their  arms,  palms  outwards  towards  the Athletes.  As they  says 
  “Hajime”  they  turn  the palms  and brings  them  rapidly  towards  one 
  another,  at the same  time  stepping  back.  
FUKUSHIN  SHUGO  Judges  called  The Referee  calls  the Judges  to assemble.  
HANTEI  Decision  Referee  calls  for a decision  at the end of an inconclusive  bout.  After  a 
  two-tone  short  blast  of the whistle,  the Judges  signal  their  votes,  and the 
  Referee  indicates  the winner  by raising  their  arm.  
HIKIWAKE  Draw  In case  of a tied bout,  the Referee  crosses  his arms,  then  extends  them  
  with  the palms  showing  to the front.  
AKA  (AO)  NO KACHI  Red (Blue) wins  The Referee  raises their  arm on the side of the winner.  
AKA  (AO)  IPPON  Red (Blue)  scores  three  The Referee  raises their  arm up at 45 degrees  on the side of the scorer.  
 points   
AKA  (AO)  WAZA -ARI Red (Blue)  scores  two The Referee  extends  their  arm at shoulder  level  on the side of the scorer.  
 points   
AKA  (AO)  YUKO  Red (Blue)  scores  one The Referee  extends  their  arm downward  at 45 degrees  on the side of 
 point  the scorer.  
CHUI  Warning  The Referee  shows  the signal  for the type  of offense  towards  the 
  offender  followed  by showing  1 to 3 fingers  depending  on if this is the 
1st, 2nd or 3rd warning.  
HANSOKU -CHUI  Warning  of The Referee  shows  the signal  for the type  of offense  towards  the 
 disqualification  offender  followed  by pointing  with  one finger  towards  the offender’s  
  belt.  
HANSOKU  Disqualification  The Referee  points  to the face  of the offender  and announces  a win for 
  the opponent.  
JOGAI  Exit from  the The Referee  points  their  index  finger  to the side of the offender  to 
 competition  area  not indicate  that the Athlete  has moved  out of the area  followed  by the 
 caused  by the opponent  applicable  warning  or penalty.  
SENSHU  First  unopposed  point  After  awarding  the point  in the regular  fashion,  the Referee  calls  “AKA  
 advantage  (AO)  SENSHU”  while  holding  lifting  their  bent  arm with  the palm  facing  
  the Referee’  s own  face.  
SHIKKAKU  Disqualification  from  the The Referee  points  to the face  of the offender,  then  away  from  the 
 tournament  competition  area,  and announces  a win for the opponent.  
TORIMASEN  Cancellation  A decision  is annulled.  The Referee  crosses  their  hands  in a downward  
  movement.  
KIKEN  Renunciation  The Referee  points  downwards  at 45 degrees  in the direction  of the 
  Athlete’s  or Team’s  side of the Tatami.  
MUBOBI  Self-Endangerment  The Referee  touches  their  face  then  turning  their  hand  edge  forward,  
  moves  it back  and forth  to indicate  that the Athlete  endangered  himself.  
WAKARETE  “Separate”  The Referee  motions  for the Athletes  to separate  from  a clinch,  or 
  standing  chest  to chest,  by separating  his hands  with  a motion  with  the 
  palms  outward  while  giving  the verbal  order.  The Athletes  halts  action  
  and separate  until  receiving  the order  “Tsuzukete”.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  50  APPENDIX  2 : GESTURES  AND  FLAG  SIGNALS  
 
STARTING  AND  STOPPING  THE  BOUT  
 
SHOMEN  NI REI ( 1 / 3 ) SHOMEN  NI REI ( 2 / 3 ) SHOMEN  NI REI ( 3 / 3 ) 
 
 
OTAGAI  NI REI ( 1 / 3 ) OTAGAI  NI REI ( 2 / 3 ) OTAGAI  NI REI ( 3 / 3 ) 
 
SHOBU  HAJIME  MOTO NO ICHI  YAME  ( 1 / 2 ) YAME  ( 2 / 2 ) 
 
 
POINTS  AND CANCELLATIONS  
 
YUKO  ( 1 / 2 ) YUKO  ( 2 / 2 ) WAZA  ARI ( 1 / 2 ) WAZA  ARI ( 2 / 2 ) 

Rules  Version  2026.01  51       
IPPON  ( 1 / 2 ) IPPON  ( 2 / 2 ) SENSHU  TORIMASEN  ( 1 / 2 ) 
CANCELLATION  TORIMASEN  ( 2 / 2 ) 
CANCELLATION  
 
WARNINGS  
TSUZUKETE  ( 1 / 2 ) TSUZUKETE  ( 2 / 2 ) WAKARETE  ( 1 / 2 ) WAKARETE  ( 2 / 2 ) 
 
 
PASSIVITY  ( 1 / 2 ) PASSIVITY  ( 2 / 2 ) 
 
   
 
HARD CONTACT OR 
DANGEROUS  THROWS  EXAGGERATING INJURY  

Rules  Version  2026.01  52  FEIGNING  INJURY
 
JOGAI  
Rules  Version  2026.01  53    
  
MUBOBI  AVOIDING  COMBAT  PUSHING  GRABBING  
 
    
UNCONTROLLED 
ATTACK  SIMULATED ATTACK  
( ELBOW)  SIMULATED ATTACK  
( HEAD)  ` SIMULATED ATTACK 
( KNEE)  
 
 
    
GOUDING OR 
TALKING  CHUI  # 1 CHUI  # 2 CHUI  # 3 
 
 
  
HANSOKU  CHUI  ( 1 / 2 ) HANSOKU  CHUI  ( 2 / 2 ) 

Rules  Version  2026.01  51  DECISION  
 
    
FUKUSHIN 
SHUGO  ( 1 / 2 ) FUKUSHIN 
SHUGO  
( 2 / 2 ) AKA ( AO) 
KIKEN  HANTEI  
 
 
 
     
HANSOKU 
( 1 / 2 ) HANSOKU 
( 2 / 2 ) SHIKKAKU 
( 1 / 3 ) 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - SHIKKAKU 
( 2 / 3 ) SHIKKAKU 
( 3 / 3 ) 
 
    
HIKIWAKE  ( 1 / 2 ) HIKIWAKE  ( 2 / 2 ) AKA ( AO)  NO KACH  I 
( 1 / 2 ) AKA ( AO)  NO KACH  I 
( 2 / 2 ) 

Rules  Version  2026.01  52  VIDEO  REVIEW  S IGNALS  
 
VIDEO  REVIEW  ( 1 / 4 ) VIDEO  REVIEW  ( 2 / 4 ) VIDEO  REVIEW  ( 3 / 4 ) VIDEO  REVIEW  ( 4 / 4 ) 
 
 
MIENAI  
 
 
 
FLAG  SIGNALS  
 
SIT TING  POSITION  YUKO  WAZA  ARI IPPON  

Rules  Version  2026.01  53  APPENDIX  3 : CATEGORIES,  AGE  & WEIGHT  DIVISIONS 
 
 
Male  Senior  (18+  years)  - 60 kg Female  Senior  (18+  years)  - 50 kg 
Male  Senior  (18+  years)  - 67 kg Female  Senior  (18+  years)  - 55 kg 
Male  Senior  (18+  years)  - 75 kg Female  Senior  (18+  years)  - 61 kg 
Male  Senior  (18+  years)  - 84 kg Female  Senior  (18+  years)  - 68 kg 
Male  Senior  (18+  years)  + 84 kg Female  Senior  (18+  years)  + 68 kg 
Male  U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 60 kg Female U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 50 kg 
Male  U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 67 kg Female  U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 55 kg 
Male  U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 75 kg Female  U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 61 kg 
Male  U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 84 kg Female  U21 (18 to <21 years)  - 68 kg 
Male  U21 (18 to <21 years)  + 84 kg Female  U21 (18 to <21 years)  + 68 kg 
Male  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 55 kg Female Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 48 kg 
Male  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 61 kg Female  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 53 kg 
Male  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 68 kg Female  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 59 kg 
Male  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 76 kg Female  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  - 66 kg 
Male  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  + 76 kg Female  Junior  (16 to <18 years)  + 66 kg 
Male  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  - 52 kg Female Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  - 47 kg 
Male  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  - 57 kg Female  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  - 54 kg 
Male  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  - 63 kg Female  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  - 61 kg 
Male  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  
Male  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  - 70 kg 
+ 70 kg Female  Cadet  (14 to <16 years)  + 61 kg 
Male  U14 (12 to <14 years)  - 40 kg Female U14 (12 to <14 years)  - 42 kg 
Male  U14 (12 to <14 years)  - 45 kg Female  U14 (12 to <14 years)  - 47 kg 
Male  U14 (12 to <14 years)  - 50 kg Female  U14 (12 to <14 years)  - 52 kg 
Male  U14 (12 to <14 years)  - 55 kg Female  U14 (12 to <14 years)  + 52 kg 
Male  U14 (12 to <14 years)  +55 kg   
Rules  Version  2026.01  54  APPENDIX  4 : OFFICIAL  PROTEST  FORM  
WKF  OFFICIAL PROTEST FORM  
The protest  must be  prepaid  
KUMITE  
 
DATE  COMPETITION  PLACE  
…….. / …….. / ……..    
CATEGORY:  
 
COMPETITOR’S  COUNTRIES  
AO AKA  
Country:  Country:  
 
 
NAME  OF COACH  / NF REP.  COUNTRY  
Valid as receipt 
by the WKF    
SIGNATURE  : 
 
TATAMI  nr. KANSA  : 
PANEL  REFEREE  JUDGE 1 JUDGE 2 JUDGE 3 JUDGE 4 
NAME       
COUNTRY       
 
RESPONSIBLE  TM SCORE  SUPERVISOR  VR JUDGE  
   
 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
………………………………………………………………………………………………….........................  
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
PROTEST  DESCRIPTION  
Rules  Version  2026.01  55  APPENDIX  5 : TWO  JUDGE  SYSTEM  
 
Procedure  for refereeing Kumite  with  only  two corner  Judges  
1. When using the two -corner judge system, the corner Judges and the Referee all have mutual 
responsibility for points. Flags are used by the Corner Judges for signalling.  
 
2. In addition to showing points, the Corner Judges will assist the Referee by giving signals for 
JOGAI and  excessive contact, but the Referee remains autonomous in applying warnings and 
penalties, and will only be overruled by two judges indicating the same foul.  
3. Points  are awarded  if two Judges,  or one Judge  plus the Referee,  agree  on the score.  
 
4. In order to be able to cover all three angles of view, the referee should never position 
themselves on the same side as the two Judges.  
 
5. The Coaches  should  be placed  in front  of the Referee  and not behind.  
 
6. The Referee can  show and  ask for  support for points  that are  made  in their  field  of play.  In this 
case, the Referee´s signals for YUKO, WAZA ARI and IPPON are the same as in the regular Kumite  
rules, with the exception that the Referee's elbow is touching their torso while indicating  the 
respective signal.  After  the Referee  has received  support,  the signals  when  giving points are the 
same as for bouts under regular rules.  
 
7. If one Judge signals for a point and the other for a warning or penalty, the Referee will take  the 
final decision by supporting one of the Judges.  
 
8. If the two Judges, or one Judge and the Referee, show different points for the same Athletes, 
the higher will be given.  
 
9. If one judge indicates a score but the Referee disagrees, the Referee will show the gesture for 
TORIMASEN without stopping the bout.  
 
10. If both  Judges  signal a point,  but for different  Athletes,  the Referee may  award  both  points.  
Rules  Version  2026.01  56  ADDITIONAL  FLAG  SIGNALS  FOR  TWO  JUDGE  SYSTEM  
 
JOGAI  CONTACT  
 
Tapping the floor 
to the side  Crossing  the flags 
to the side  of the 
face 
 
  
 
COMPETITION  AREA  LAYOUT  
 
 

Rules  Version  2026.01  57  APPENDIX  6 : SUMMARY  TABLE  OF WINNING  CRITERIA  AND  TIE RESOLUTION  
 
 

