     WKF Dan Grade Regulation  
 
1 
Updated April 2026  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
WKF  DAN  GRADE  REGULATION  
 
     WKF Dan Grade Regulation  
 
2 
Updated April 2026  
 
Preamble  
 
All WKF National Federations have the authority to request WKF diplomas for Dan 
grades up to and including 8th Dan provided that the candidate has fulfilled the 
requirements to age and interval since last grading prescribed by WKF rules.   Those 
individuals wishing WKF diplomas for their grade up to and including 8th Dan must 
request these to the WKF HQ through their National Federation.  
 
For any grade above this  (9th Dan onwards) , it is up to the National Federation to 
issue higher Dan for their accomplishments on the national level – but these grades 
are not homologated by WKF.  
 
Only in exceptional cases, and on recommendation of the WKF President, the WKF 
EC may on its own initiative award a Dan grade above 8th Dan for outstanding 
contribution to international karate on the world level. As a general principle, the 
WKF is not issuing WKF Dan grades above 8th Dan based on 
recommendations or requests by NFs or individuals .   
 
1. The Dan Grade System  
1.1 The Dan G rade system is based on recognition of personal development as 
practitioners, technicians, instructor s and exponents of karate. For G rades higher 
than 8th Dan the rank is  a recognition of the person’s contribution to karate beyond 
personal development.  
 
1.2 National F ederations  (NF) may only give, or certify, D an G rades for members of 
their own National Federation.  
 
1.3 There are three categories of Dan G rades within the WKF:  
 
• Grades from 1st up to and including 8th Dan given by a National 
Federation . These may be homologated by the WKF upon application from 
the National Federation to the WKF HQ, upon which the homologation 
certificate will be issued by the WKF President for the NF President’s 
countersignature and then sent to the National Federation HQ. 
• Grades 9th Dan and above awarded by a National Federation  for karate 
accomplishments  at a national level. These are  not homologated by, or 
require registration  with, the WKF .  The applicable certificate is issued by the 
National Federation  only. 
• Grades  9th & 10th Dan awarded by the WKF Executive Committee for 
karate accomplishments at an international level. The applicable certificate is 
issued by  the WKF.  
  
     WKF Dan Grade Regulation  
 
3 
Updated April 2026  
2. General Requirements  
 
2.1 The following age and time inte rval requirements apply to Dan G rades within the 
WKF:   
 
1st Dan (shodan ) Minimum 15 years of age  Minimum 3 years of training  
2nd Dan (nidan)   Minimum 17 years of age  Minimum 2 years since 1st Dan 
3rd Dan (sandan)  Minimum 20 years of age  Minimum 3 years since 2nd Dan 
4th Dan (yondan)  Minimum 24 years of age  Minimum 4 years since 3rd Dan 
5th Dan (godan)   Minimum 29 years of age  Minimum 5 years since 4th Dan 
6th Dan (rokudan)  Minimum 35 years of age  Minimum 6 years since 5th Dan 
7th Dan (nanadan)  Minimum 42 years of age  Minimum 7 years since 6th Dan 
8th Dan (hac hidan)  Minimum 50 years of age  Minimum 8 years since 7th Dan 
9th Dan (kyudan)  Awarded for exceptional lifetime achievement for karate  
10th Dan (judan)  Awarded for exceptional lifetime achievement for karate   
 
3. Application P rocess  
 
3.1 Homologat ion of G rades given by National Federation s: 
 
The WKF homologates Dan  Grades from 1st Dan (shodan) through 8th Dan 
(hachidan ) upon receipt of the application signed by the applicants’ National 
Federation President  and the remittance of the applicable fee as stipulated by the 
WKF.  
 
The Nation al Federati on must submit its application i n official letterhead to the 
WKF HQ, listing the candidates and stating the following information:  
 
• Title (Mr/Mrs/… as it should appear on the diploma ) 
• Name (as it should appear on the diploma)  
• Surname (as it should appear on the diploma)  
• Dan Grade to be recognized  
• Date of previous WKF Dan Grade  
• Date of birth  
• National Federation HQ postal address   
 
By signing the application form, the National Federation certifies that the 
applicant has fulfilled the requirements of the National Federation and the World 
Karate Federation as reflected in section 2 above.   
 
The WKF does not homologate honorary Dan Grades awarded by a National 
Federation.  
 
The responsibility for maintaining appropriate standards for  the approval or award 
of Dan G rades rest s with the National F ederations. Shoul d a National  Federation 
fail to conform to the homologation requirements  that F ederation may be subject 
to the denial of their members’ Dan G rade homologation .     
     WKF Dan Grade Regulation  
 
4 
Updated April 2026  
 
3.2 Grades 9th & 10th Dan awarded by a National Federation:  
  
The rules and application process of the National Federation app ly. Grades 
higher than 8th Dan may be awarded by a National Federation for 
accomplishments in the development of karate within its National Federation, but 
they are not homologated by the WKF.  
  
Although Grades above a 8th Dan awarded by a  National Federation are not 
subject to WKF approval or homologation, the National Federation must follow 
the WKF requirements in regard to  age and time intervals between the G rades 
as given  by the WKF.  
 
3.3 Grades 9th & 10th Dan awarded by the WKF Executive Committee : 
 
From time to time the WKF may,  on its own initiative,  award higher Dan Grades, 
9th & 10th Dan to individuals for their accomplishments in international karate. 
Such Grades are awarded by the WKF Executive Committee on the 
recommendation of the WKF President.  
 
The nomination has to be formulated in writing to the WKF EC stating the 
information required for homologation (see 3.1 above), in addition to  the persons´ 
Grading history and the candidates´ specific accomplishments in international 
karate.  There is no application fee charged for this category.   
 
The WKF EC will evaluate all applications received . In case  there is one or more 
EC members objecting to this, the Dan Grade application will not be approved.   
 
4. Diplomas  
 
4.1 Candidates having their Dan  Grade homologated by the WKF will receive at their 
NF HQ the WKF applicable diploma signed by the WKF President and their 
National Federation President.  
 
4.2 Diplomas for 9th & 10th Dan Grades  and above awarded by a National Federation 
are issued by the applicable National Federation only.  
 
4.3 Persons being awarded a Dan Grade by the WKF Executive Commi ttee will 
receive a diploma signed by the WKF President and the WKF General Secretary  
at the NF HQ .  
 
4.4 Diplomas lost or destroyed may be replaced by the WKF by the National 
Federation submitting a new application, noting on the application that it is issued 
for the purpose of obtaining a duplicate diploma, and paying the applicable fee 
as determined by the WKF.  
