 
1 
October 2025  
WKF REFEREE  COMMISSION  
AND  
REFEREES’  RULES  
 
 
 
INDEX  
 
1. GENERAL DISPOSITIONS  OF THE REFEREE COMMISSION  
2. POWERS AND AUTHORITIES  OF THE REFEREE COMMISSION  
3. THE REFEREE COURSE  
3.1 DATE AND VENUE  
3.2 PREPARATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
3.3 COURSE CONTENT  
3.4 QUALIFICATIONS CONFERRED  
3.5 COURSE REQUIREMENTS AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES  
4. GENERAL REGULATIONS  
5. UNIFORM  
ANNEX 1:  REFEREE COMMISION MEMBERS – TASKS AND DUTIES  
  
 
2 
October  2025  1. GENERAL DISPOSITIONS  OF THE REFEREE COMMISSION  
 
1.1 The Referee Commission will consist of the Chairman and ten (10) permanent members, all 
appointed by the Executive Committee. The five (5) Continental Federations will be represented in 
the RC and as far as possible the RC members will be qualified in both Ka ta and Kumite at A Level. 
A Secretary and a 1st Assistant Secretary will be appointed and in addition a 2nd Assistant Secretary 
may be appointed by the Executive Committee, without the right to vote. Only the A level qualified 
members will have the right t o vote  in the examinations of the Referee Course, this considered 
separately for Kumite and Kata qualifications. The EC will also have the right to appoint additional 
member s if considered necessary to assure the best general balance within the RC.  
 
1.2 There will be a Referee Commission Executive Bureau in charge to deal with the day-to-day 
affairs. The RC Executive Bureau composition will be proposed from time to time by the RC 
Chairman to the  WKF President, who will decide; only RC members will be eligible to form part of 
the RC Executive Bureau. As a minimum it will comprise the RC Chairman and the RC Secretary 
and will have to include RC members of at least 3 different Continental Federations . 
 
1.3 Members of the Referee Commission cannot, during their term, be active as Coaches at official 
WKF Events e.g., World Championships, Continental Championships, Games, Premier Leagues, 
Series  A and Youth Leagues. Any member violating this rule will be excluded from the RC.  
 
1.4 Details on the tasks and duties of the different WKF RC members are detailed in ANNEX 1.  
 
 
2. POWERS AND AUTHORITIES  OF THE REFEREE COMMISSION  
 
2.1 The Referee Commission will be responsible for the examination and certification of Referee 
Officials and their deployment at WKF events . It shall be the responsibility of the Referee 
Commission to maintain the standards of Refereeing and a uniform interpretation and application of 
the rules.  
 
2.2 The Referee Commission will monitor the performance of the Referees and Judges during the 
scheduled WKF events . 
 
2.3 Complaints received by the Referee Commission Chair may result in the subsequent 
performance of the official(s) in question being closely scrutinised and reported on by delegated 
members of the Referee Commission.  
 
2.4 In the event that a Judge or Referee incurs serious criticism, then the Referee Commission will 
decide whether to suspend that official in their absolute discretion . The Referee Commission has the 
power to take measurements against such an official by demanding a new examination, new Referee 
 
3 
October  2025  Course and examination or suspension for up to two years depending on the seriousness of the 
misdemeanour or fault.  
 
2.5 The Secretary of the Referee Commission shall arrange with the WKF HQ Office for the supply 
of certificates, badges, stationery, examination papers, passbooks, ties, and such other items as 
may be required for the Referee Programme.  
 
2.6 The Referee Commission shall also have the power, with the agreement of the Executive 
Committee, to convene meetings of its membership in order to discuss Refereeing matters such as 
the implications of rule changes.  
 
2.7 Meetings and activities of the Referee Commission will be internally coordinated, minuted and 
circulated by the Referee Commission Secretary as well as to the members of the Executive 
Committee.  
 
 
3. THE REFEREE COURSE AND EXAMINATIONS  
 
3.1. DATE AND VENUE  
 
3.1.1 The venue for the Referee courses and examinations shall be the same as for the World 
Championships  for Candidates with qualification (s) and a Premier League for Candidates without 
qualification(s) . Nevertheless, if the EC agrees to separate the courses from the Championships, a 
Kumite and Kata Referee course and examination will take place on an annual basis, providing that:  
 
a) The venue for the WKF Referee Course, if separated from the World Championships will be 
set by the Congress as part of the events calendar of the WKF. In the event that after the 
Congress the next year's venue becomes unavailable, the Executive Committee s hall have the 
power to re -locate the course.  
 
b) The venue for the course, if separated from the World Championships must be within 60 
kilometres of an international airport at a hotel with adequate accommodation. Six months before 
the scheduled start of the course, the host country will send details to the WKF HQ Office , who, 
in turn, will circulate the hotel details, to WKF member countries and to the RC Secretary. These 
countries shall have direct access to the selected hotel and neither the host country nor its agents 
may interfere in this right.  
 
c) A competition must be organised after the course, if separated from the Word Championships 
and will serve as the confirmation event.  
 
3.1.2 The course venue must be within walking distance of the headquarters hotel, or free transport 
must be arranged between the two. Walking distance means a maximum of 15 minutes time.  
 
4 
October  2025   
3.1.3 The course timetable will be set by the Referee Commission three months prior to its scheduled 
start date, so as to be circulated with the hotel information as mentioned before.  
 
 
3.2 PREPARATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
 
3.2.1 The Chair of the Organising Commission or a nominee thereof shall inspect the proposed 
course venue and headquarters hotel during the scheduled pre -Championships visit. At this time, 
the organising country will receive a detailed briefing on requirements and details. A report of this 
meeting will be lodged with the Referee Commission Secretary.  
 
3.2.2  The WKF rules for use at the course are available from the WKF HQ or from the website.  
 
3.2.3 The Referee Commission will devise the questions for use in the examinations. These will be 
translated into English, French and Spanish and such other languages as may be required from time 
to time by the WKF President and EC and will be available from th e WKF HQ. The question papers 
to be used at the examinations will be provided to the candidates by the Referee  Commission 
Secretary.  
 
3.2.4 The WKF HQ will also circulate to the NFs information relating to the online registration and 
payment procedures for the course.  
 
3.2.5 The Secretary of the Referee Commission will confirm that he has an adequate  supply of 
badges, ties, certificates, passbooks, forms and the necessary documentation to operate the course.  
 
3.2.6 For the Kumite course and examinations,  the host country will ensure that it can provide at 
least 30, high quality fighters, each day. All competitors must be black belts and at least 18 years 
old. 
 
3.2.7 The host country will ensure that it is able to provide adequate facilities for Referees at the 
competition to be staged at the conclusion of the course, if separated from the World Championships.  
 
 
3.3. COURSE CONTENT  
 
3.3.1 In order to standardise the worldwide level of Refereeing, the course will involve explanations 
and updating of the rules. At the conclusion of this lecture, there will be a theory examination.  
 
3.3.2 The practical examinations will take the form of observation of a candidate whilst such attempts 
to work in an actual bout.  
 
 
5 
October  2025  3.3.3 A candidate’s performance will be summarised by means of a pass/fail form and the result of 
the examination will be given to the candidate by the Referee Commission and a copy forwarded to 
the candidate’s nominating National Federation.  
 
 
3.4. QUALIFICATIONS CONFERRED  
 
3.4.1 Licensed WKF officials may be qualified as Tatami Managers , Karate Referees (both Kata and 
Kumite level A qualified), Kumite Referee B, Kumite Judge A or B and Kata Judge A or B. 
Qualification entitles the official to officiate in that capacity in all scheduled WKF events.  
 
3.4.2 A candidate’s first qualification(s) will be as Kumite Judge B and/or Kata Judge B. Candidates 
will be required to progress through each level. The order of progression is as follows;  
 
1) Kumite Judge B and/or Kata Judge B  
2) Kumite Judge A and/or Kata Judge A or B  
3) Kumite Referee B and/or Kata Judge A or B  
4) Karate Referee (Qualified in both Kata and Kumite to A level)  
5) Tatami Managers  (Must serve a minimum of five years as a Referee)  
 
It should be noted that it is compulsory to have dual Kata and Kumite “A” level qualifications in order 
to be qualified as a Karate Referee. However , Officials may hold single qualifications up to Kumite 
Referee A or Kata Judge A.  
 
3.4.3 Provided that an official keeps his/her license up to date, attends the annual  WKF World 
Championships (providing compliance with the regulations established for that year) at least once 
every four (4) years,  attends the pre -championship s briefing and lecture, and officiates satisfactorily 
then they will not be expected to undergo another practical examination, although they must sit and 
pass the theory paper which will be presented at the end of the pre -Championships briefing, once in 
every four (4) years.  
 
3.4.4 All WKF Officials are required to attend a minimum of one Karate1 Event a year in order to 
keep his/her license(s) valid.  
 
Those who do not comply with this rule and want to have a valid license  will have to attend and pass 
the examination at a Referee Course in Kata and/or Kumite.  After a year has passed without having 
a valid license, it is necessary to attend a Referee Course and begin from the beginning.  
 
WKF female pregnant Judges & Referees are exempt from attending one Karate 1 event for a 
total period of eight (8) months, of which at least four (4) months must be after the birth, when there 
is no opportunity to fulfill the WKF requirement.   
 
In order to implement this exemption measure, the Referee must send written confirmation to the 
WKF  RC, along with a medical certificate, before the period of eight (8) months starts.   
 
 
6 
October  2025  3.4.5 Adverse reports on performance may well result in non -confirmation of provisional 
qualifications or in severe cases, actual downgrading or suspension, pending satisfactory re -
examination.  
 
3.4.6 The practical examination for Referees and judges will normally take place each year just prior 
to the scheduled World Championships. Candidates will be assessed by means of an evaluation 
form with scores allotted to the various sections of the examinatio n. As each candidate is examined 
the examiners will submit their score electronically to the Ass. Secretary of the RC. In order to ensure  
impartiality and to avoid possible conflicts of interest the examining panel’s highest and lowest scores 
will be automatically excluded. The remaining scores will be averaged and those achieving or 
exceeding the pass mark will receive their respective qualifications.  
 
3.4.7 The Referee Commission Chair will decide the pass mark for each examination after 
consultation with the WKF President. To ensure impartiality this pass mark will not be divulged to 
the RC . 
 
3.4.8 The examining panel will give a copy of the averaged evaluation form to each candidate and 
the WKF RC Secretary will send another copy to the candidate’s National Federation for their 
records.  
 
3.4.9 All qualifications at the WKF Referee course are provisional: they are confirmed as a result of 
a satisfactory performance at a subsequent scheduled WKF event (confirmation event).  
 
3.4.10 The scheduled WKF events  with a Referee course  are as follows:  
a) WKF Junior & Cadet World Championships.  
b) WKF Senior World Championships.  
c) One K arate 1 - Premier League event per each year as decided by the EC.  
 
 
3.5. COURSE REQUIREMENTS AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES  
 
3.5.1 For the theory lectures and examinations, the host country must furnish a room with sufficient 
chairs and desks to accommodate 250 people. The room must be equipped with an LCD Projector 
and suitable screen .  
 
3.5.2 The area for the Kumite practical examinations must be capable of holding one Kumite area, 
equipped with electrical connections for the examiners laptops, sufficient tables and chairs,  
bells/buzzers, electronic score board, stop watches, red and blue belts and an adequate supply of 
fighters, as specified in 2.2.6. and appropriate medical cover.  On one side of the Tatami there will 
be a minimum of 50 chairs for the Candidates to seat  while waiting their turn . 
 
 
7 
October  2025  3.5.3 For the practical examination of the Kata course there must be two areas with  tables and chairs 
for the Referee Commission and electrical connections for the examiners ’ laptops . 
 
3.5.4 The host country will meet the cost of all these items.  
 
3.5.5 The host country is expected to provide a dinner for the participants. Course candidates should 
not be charged for this provision though other guests may be.  
 
 
4. GENERAL REGULATIONS  
 
4.1 The National Federations may nominate their country’s citizens  and/or residents  as candidates 
to the WKF Referee course provided the country is in current paid-up membership of WKF. 
Candidates must be qualified National Kumite Referee A or National Kata Judge A . Candidates must 
be registered  online t hrough the WKF software provider within the established deadlines for each 
event in the respective event bulletin or face a fine or other penalty  as decided by the EC.  
 
4.2 Kata and Kumite Candidates must be at least 25 years old and be a minimum 2nd WKF Dan 
Grade.  
 
4.3 Candidates must wear the uniform detailed in 4.  
 
4.4 All refereeing officials who have not attended the course and examinations and wishing to 
officiate at the Championships must attend the Referees  briefing on the afternoon or evening before 
the Championships commence. They must also be present at the competition venue for final briefing 
and area allocation, 30 minutes before the scheduled start.  
 
4.5 Referees and Judges officiating in a WKF event must in principle have the nationality or  
residence in the country they represent and be affiliated through the NF of their country of citizenship 
or residence. Exceptions to this must be approved by the NF in which the individual has citizenship 
and will be subject to the final approval of WKF EC.  
 
4.6 WKF Referees and Judges officiating in a WKF event cannot perform another function in that  
event unless authorized by WKF and are strictly warned against interacting with coaches and 
contestants during competitions in progress. Regardless of the place or circumstances, WKF 
Referees and Judges are not either allowed to appear in photos/videos to gether with coaches and 
contestants when wearing the official uniform. Referees and Judges violating this vital norm of 
conduct and Fair Play may face suspension from all WKF official events for a period to be 
determined.  
Referees and Judges are also strictly advised to not publish content on any social media platforms 
with information that violates the privacy and integrity of other WKF members and the discretion of 
 
8 
October  2025  internal information. Referees and Judges violating this norm of privacy will face suspension from 
future appointments.  
The terms Referees and Judges in this paragraph refers to all National, Continental and World 
Referees and Judges. Furthermore, WKF events in this paragraph refer not only to official WKF 
events but also to all events under the WKF umbrella.  
 
4.7 All Referee Commission members belonging to the World Karate Federation (WKF) or 
Continental Karate Federations are prohibited from training, guiding and/or coaching any National 
Karate Team of Kata, Kumite and Para -Karate. This also includes athletes part icipating in official 
WKF events, such as Karate 1 Premier League, Series A or Youth League.   
 
The only exception to this norm is when a RC Member, without holding any official NF Coach 
title/duty, teaches in his/her own Dojo a student that is member of the NF’s National Team.   
 
Any RC member violating this vital norm of conduct and Fair Play may face suspension from all WKF 
official events for a period to be determined.  
 
4.8 In order to avoid conflict of interest, the Referee, Judges, Match Supervisor, Score Supervisor, 
and/or VR Supervisor s of a Kumite bout and the Judges of a Kata bout must not have the nationality, 
residence or belong to the NF of the contestants. In law conflict of interest must be also avoid in all 
cases. It remains the duty of any official to self -report on any possible conflict of interest before the 
bout or match starts.  
Officials not complying with these criteria  will be immediately suspended from the actual tournament 
and will face a further suspension from all WKF official events for a minimum of one year.  
 
Referees and Judges Deployment  and panel allocation : 
(conflict of interest rule, as detailed in point 3.7 to be applied to the deployment and panel allocation)  
 
KUMITE  
 
- For the Kumite eliminat ion rounds the RC Secretary will facilitate to the software provider a 
list containing the Referees and Judges available per Tatami . This list is done by the RC 
Secretary once the athletes draw is finished and at the end of the Referees Briefing . This list 
must only contain Referees present at the Briefing and must comply  with the above -
mentioned  criteria. Then for the Referees draw the softwar e provider will enter the list i n the 
system and  5 Judges and Referees out of each Tatami deployment will be randomly allocated 
as Referee Panel for each bout.  
 
- For medal bouts the Tatami Managers will provide the RC Chairman and Secretary with a 
list containing 8 officials from their own Tatami after the last bout of the eliminatory rounds is 
finished.  Once the list is approved by the RC Chairman it will be facilitate d to the software 
provider to enter  them i n the system. The system will then allocate randomly the Referee 
panel, which will only contain 5 out of the 8 officials from each tatami . 
 
 
9 
October  2025  KATA  
 
- For the Kata elimination rounds the RC Secretary will facilitate to the software provider a 
list containing the Judges available per Tatami. This list is done by the RC Secretary once 
the athletes draw is finished and at the end of the Referees Briefing. T his list must only 
contain Kata Judges present at the Briefing and must comply with the above -mentioned 
criteria. Then for the Judges draw the software provider will enter the list in the system and 
7 Judges out of each Tatami deployment will be randomly a llocated as Judges Panel for 
each group.  
 
- For medal bouts the Tatami Managers will provide the RC Chairman and Secretary with a 
list containing 8 officials from their own Tatami after the last bout of the eliminatory rounds 
is finished. Once the list is approved by the RC Chairman it will be facil itated to the 
software provider to enter them in the system. The system will then allocate randomly the 
Judges panel, which will only contain 7 out of the 8 officials from each tatami.  
 
4.9 The Refereeing panel are strictly warned against discussing the outcome or decision of a match 
or bout with other than the members of the Referee panel, Tatami Manager or the Referee 
Commission. Infringement of this rule may incur penalties being taken against the offender.  
 
4.10 The Referee Commission will publish  after each Referee course  a list of qualified officials, from 
which the organisers of international events will draw their Refereeing and Judging personnel. This 
list will be circulated no later than one month after the Referee course  by the RC  Secretary to the 
WKF HQ Office . 
 
4.11 Referees and Judges must renew (pay) their licences (PLR) every four years. All current 
officials are required to be paid up to date with the WKF Treasury. Officials of countries in debt to 
WKF may not participate in WKF Championships or courses.  
 
4.12 All Refereeing officials are required to submit their licences to the Referee Commission at all 
WKF events.  
 
4.13 This licence duly signed and validated will allow the official to attend all international contests 
and championships of the WKF.  
 
4.14. For Referees and Judges who register for an official WKF Event or Referee Course and for 
any reason decide not to attend ( regardless of whether the registration period is finish ed or not), the 
following applies:  
 
In order to remove an Official’s name from the online registration list, the Official must send to the 
WKF RC Secretary as soon as possible and in any case  before the start of the Event the relevant 
documentation supporting the reason for the absence, including a copy of the flight ticket and 
accommodation reservation , for proper assessment by the RC Chair and Secretary .  
 
 
10 
October  2025  Upon receipt, the RC Secretary will inform about the acceptance of the reasoning for the withdrawal 
of the relevant registration. In case the information is not received prior to the start of the Event,  or, 
if the substantiated reasons are not deemed reasonable , the Official will be subject to a fine of the 
amount as defined by the applicable WKF Fees and Conditions.  Additionally,  until the fine is paid, 
the Official will not be eligible to register for any event and  will thus be blocked from any registration.  
 
 
5. UNIFORM  
 
5.1 Referees and Judges must wear the official uniform designated by the Executive Committee. 
This Uniform must be worn at all Briefings, Courses and Competitions.  
 
WKF and/or Continental Referee Commission Members must not,  during the round trip as well as 
participation in official WKF competitions, Referee Courses and Seminars,  wear the tracksuit of 
their National Federations. When not in uniform, their attires ha ve to be discreet, not showing the 
origin of the Official.  
 
5.2 The official uniform will be as follows:  
• A single -breasted navy -blue blazer.  (Colour  code 19 -4023 TPX).  
• A white shirt with short sleeves.  
• An official tie, worn without tiepin.  
• A black whistle  
• A discreet white cord for the whistle.  
• Plain light -grey trousers without turn -ups. ( Colour code Pantone 18 -0201 TPX ). 
• Plain dark blue or black socks and black slip -on shoes for use on the match area.  
• Referees and Judges may wear a hairclip and discreet earrings.  
• Referees and judges may wear a plain wedding band.  
• Voluntary r eligious  headwear that is WKF approved  
 
5.3 For Female Officials  the following additional specifications are made:  
Hair must be worn off the shoulders.  
Make -up must be discreet.  
Heels of more than 4 cm may not be worn with the uniform.  
 
5.4 Games and multisport events  
For Olympic Games, Youth Olympic Games, Continental Games and other multisport  events where  
a cross -sport uniform is provided for Referees at the cost of the LOC with the feel & look of the  
specific event, the official uniform for Referees might be substituted by that common uniform,  
provided that it is requested in writing to the WKF by the event organiser and formally approved by  
the WKF.   
 
11 
October  2025  ANNEX 1  
 
REFEREE COMMISION MEMBERS – TASKS AND DUTIES  
 
TATAMI MANAGER COORDINATOR  
 
1. It is the task of the TM Coordinator to ensure that the TM and TM assistant(s) panels are up 
to date with their tasks. In the case of bad behavior, negligence, or other disturbances from 
a TM or TM assistant(s), the coordinator will take the necessary meas urements needed to 
resolve the issue and file a report to the RC Executive Bureau.   
 
2. The TM Coordinator should move around to all Tatamis and check how things are developing 
during the tournament, making sure that the balance regarding quality and quantity is 
satisfactory. In case different placement among officials is necessary, the TM Co ordinator 
will ar range it with the RC secretary.   
 
3. In order to  ensure transparency and fair play among the referees and judges officiating, the 
TM Coordinator will make sure that the selected officials for medal bouts from each Tatami 
have the required information regarding their selection. All other officials should  also be 
informed of the TM’s selection.  
 
4. After the referee briefing and/or before the start of the competition, the TM and TM 
assistant(s) will be called for a briefing together with the TM Coordinator and the RC -
Secretary and/or Chairman in order to give instructions and hand over relev ant documents 
needed for the competition (Tatami deployment, protest forms, grand winners list, approved 
brands, etc.). At the end of each competition day , they will be called for a short meeting 
regarding the negative and positive points of the day.  
 
5. In the case it is necessary to replace a TM or TM assistant(s) for any reason ( e.g., leaving 
the competition early, arriving late, sickness, etc.) the TM Coordinator, with the advic e of the 
RC Chairman, selects the replacement.  
 
6. Cooperation with the  WKF OC Chair, event supervisor or  local organizers in order to facilitate 
the smooth running of the competition is part of the TM’s and the TM Coordinators tasks, 
e.g., switching bouts/matches or part of pools from one Tatami to another.  
 
7. Each Tatami will have one TM and two or three TM assistants depending on the number of 
officials allocated to the Tatami.  
 
8. TM and TM assistant(s) should be from different continents and different National 
Federations.  
 
 
12 
October  2025  9. Tatami Managers   need to be WKF qualified Kumite -A and Kata -A officials and will be 
selected according to their experience as TM, TM assistant(s), and referees. Priority for 
selection shall be given to the members of the WKF RC.  
 
10. TM will start the day by briefing the Officials in his/her Tatami about the latest changes in the 
rules and to emphasis the importance of not having any kind of conflict of interest such as 
officiating a match which could benefit a competitor from their ow n country of citizenship or 
National Federation.  
 
11. TM and TM assistant(s) are required to check and evaluate the performance of the referee 
panel after each bout and submit a report by end of the day to the TM Coordinator. They are 
also to be sure that all referees and judges are officiating equally during  the day and to 
register in the deployment form all participations. If there is a problem in the performance of 
an Official or the referee panel, it must be reported to the TM Coordinator and feedback 
should be given by the TM and/or the TM Coordinator.  
 
12. It is the TM’s duty to make sure that all officials in his/her Tatami get their lunch and coffee 
break(s) when provided by the organizers.  
 
 
APPEALS JURY COORDINATOR  
 
The role of the Appeals Jury Coordinator is to ensure that the procedures for taking protests are 
conducted in accordance with the Rules of Competition.  
 
The Appeals Jury Coordinator does not act as an additional member of the Appeals Jury.  
 
1. Responsibilities prior to Competition  
 
At the commencement of the competition the Appeals Jury manager will conduct a meeting with 
the Appeals Jury to revise expectations and responsibilities.  
The Appeals Jury must accept the following responsibilities as part of their role:  
 
a. Members of Appeals Jury must be available at all times during the Championships.  
b. No more than two members of the Appeals Jury may leave the tatami area in order to have 
lunch or a longer break at the same time.  
c. The members of the Appeals Jury must always advise the Appeals Jury Coordinator when 
they have to leave the tatami for a longer period of time.  
d. The members of the Appeals Jury must report any form of conflict of interest when they arise 
that could affect the decision -making process.  
 
 
 
13 
October  2025   
2. Responsibilities during competition   
 
a. At the commencement of each competition day, the Appeals Jury Coordinator will ensure 
each tatami has the approved any protest forms on the table.  
 
b. The Appeals Jury Coordinator will find an area at the competition where the Appeals Jury 
may convene their investigation.  
 
c. It is the duty of the Tatami Manager to advise the Appeals Jury Coordinator of any pending 
protests.  
 
d. Prior to accepting a protest, the Appeals Jury Coordinator must ensure that the protest has 
been pre -paid and the official protest form has been completed in one of the WKF official 
languages.  
 
e. The Appeals Jury Coordinator must convene with the Appeals Jury as soon as the protest 
has been received.  
 
f. Ensure that the protest does not present any conflict of interest to any member of the Appeals 
Jury. Where a conflict arises, the Appeals jury Coordinator must replace the conflicted 
member(s) from the list of Appeals Jury members. (Article 11 in the rules  of competition).  
 
g. Whilst the investigation is in progress, the Appeals Jury Coordinator will ensure that the 
Appeals Jury is able to carry out their investigation without disturbance from coaches, 
athletes, or head of delegations.  
 
h. The Appeals Jury Coordinator will ensure that the Appeals Jury conduct their investigation 
and advice results within 5 minutes, as per the rules of competition.  
 
i. The Appeals Jury Coordinator will accompany the Appeals Jury (No. 1) for the 
announcement of the result.  
 
j. In the event that the protest is upheld, the Appeals Jury Coordinator will inform the Chief 
Referee and co -ordinate with the Official Table the correction of the match.  
 
k. The incident report must be completed on the official form and forwarded to the RC Chairman 
or RC Secretary/Assistant Secretary.  
 
3. Responsibility during Finals  
 
In addition to all points in 2.0, during the finals, the Appeals Jury Coordinator will:  
 
 
14 
October  2025  a. Review the finals deployment to ensure  no two members of the Appeals Jury are deployed 
in any one match at the same time.  
 
b. Ensure that the Appeals Jury have an area dedicated to them throughout the finals.  
 
 
PARA  KARATE COORDINATOR  
 
The task of the RC Para -Karate Coordinator is to provide support to qualified Kata Judges and 
encourage them to continue their efforts and education in order to participate in Para -Karate 
Competitions.  
 
The Para -Karate Coordinator will work alongside the RC Chairman and Secretaries in educating the 
Kata Judges. This education will consist of teaching both the technical assessment standards in 
Para -Karate competition classes and the classification rules.  
 
The primary education is the technical part in which the Kata judges will be trained in evaluating the 
Para -Kata performances. The secondary education will be based on information regarding the 
classification systems which is crucial in order to preserve a thlete safety, as well as to promote fair 
competition by means of a transparent and consistent set of standards.  
 
In addition to the above educational agenda, Kata Judges and especially Tatami Managers need to 
be familiar with the regulations concerning the following:  
 
• Para -Karate sport Classes  
• Wheelchairs classification.  
• Service animals trained to aid the Para -Karate athletes.  
• Tasks and obligations of the athlete’s assistants and coaches.  
• The IPC (Int ernational  Paralympic Committee) policy on sport equipment.  
• Prohibited advertising content and advertising placement on the athlete’s wheelchair.  
• Special exceptions given by the rules, e.g., the Intellectually -Impaired sport class.  
• Safety norms in case of emergency during Para -Karate competitions.  
 
 
COACHES’ AND ATHLETES’ BEHAVIOUR COORDINATOR  
 
Fairplay and correct behaviour in sports is essential for the welfare and safety of the athletes, 
coaches, and officials in a competition. Threatening and insulting behaviour from any members of a 
National Federation cannot be tolerated and should have con sequences for those involved.  
 
 
15 
October  2025  The duties of the Coaches and Athletes Behaviour Coordinator are to observe and use in accordance 
to Tatami Managers and other officials collect information regarding bad behaviour from coaches 
and/or competitors during Kata and Kumite competition.  
 
Having cooperation and communication with the WKF Athletes Commission, Technical Commission, 
and Athletes’ Entourage Commission is crucial for resolving eventualities that may take place and 
for taking preventive measurements.  
 
The Referee Panel of a Kata and Kumite bout is, according to the rules of competition, in charge of 
making decisions against bad behaviour from an individual before, during, or after the bout. After the 
matter has been resolved, a report must be given to t he RC Coaches and Athletes Behaviour 
Coordinator. The coordinator will then contact the appropriate commission(s) for further action.  
 
The Coaches and Athletes Behaviour Coordinator will assist, advice, and support the Tatami 
Managers, Controllers, and other Officials in achieving the following objectives:  
 
• To allow only coaches with official accreditations to be seated in the box provided.  
• To enforce the dress code of the coaches during eliminations and medal bouts.  
• To prevent coaches from interfering with bouts in progress.  
• To prevent coaches from acting in an unacceptable manner towards the referee panel, other 
coaches, competitors, and officials.  
• To assist other officials  resolving issues with coaches or competitors.  
• Being available in case the organizing commission needs information during the coaches 
meeting.  
• Being available at referee briefings in order to give the necessary coach and athletes 
behaviour expectations information to the officials.  
• In cooperation with the RC, VRS, and Controller´s Coordinator, inform the controllers about 
their rights and duties regarding coaches and athletes.  
• To prepare and deliver an incident report of the occurred to the RC Chairman or Secretary, 
the report will then be forwarded to WKF President and the respective commission.  
 
 
KATA JUDGE EVALUATION COORDINATOR  
 
The task of the RC Kata Judge Evaluation Coordinator is to assist and guide the Tatami Managers 
in the evaluation of the Kata Judge’s performances. By observing and analyzing the data presented 
by the software provider concerning the evaluation done by the Kata officials during bo uts. The 
Evaluation Coordinator together with the RC and TMs will be able to give support to those Kata 
Judges that need guidance.  
 
 
16 
October  2025  The Kata Judge Evaluation Coordinator’s assignments include the live monitoring of Kata judgment 
during competition and action taking when the Judge´s job is not satisfactory, as well as the software 
Kata evaluation program shows an alarm.  
 
The Kata Judge Evaluation program/software serves as a tool to supervise the activity of the Kata 
Judges during competition and to establish an overall assessment of the Judges. These evaluations 
will be done both live (during the event) and after the even t (post -competition).  
 
The post -competition evaluations will be done by the Evaluation Coordinator together with members 
of the RC. The objective is to find and categorize those Judges whose results have been out of the 
expected normality (ascending or descending) compared to th e rest of the judging panel.  
 
Good communication and cooperation with the software provider and the Tatami Managers is 
needed to accomplish the above responsibilities.  
 
 
FEMALE REFEREE COORDINATOR  
 
The task of the female Referees coordinator is to assist the female Officials in their professional 
development, as well as facilitating a routine for personal and professional growth within the sport.  
 
By monitoring the Officials development both at the national, continental, and international arena, 
the Female Referees Coordinator can motivate, encourage, and promote female officials to achieve 
their goals.  
 
Honest and trustable communication with the female Referees and judges in the organization is 
essential to achieve the following goals:  
 
• To increase the number of female Officials within WKF.  
• To encourage female Officials to keep educating themselves to higher Referee licenses.  
• To increase the number of RC Chairwomen in National Federations.  
• To increase the number of female Officials in Referee Commissions at all levels.  
• To provide channels for female Officials to grant their demands and suggestions.  
• To expand the number of female Officials as TM, TM Asst., and Appeals Jury.  
• To safeguard the rights and interests of all female Officials.  
• To help prevent gender harassment and/or abuse of any kind.  
• To give proper appreciation and value to female’s Officials work and efforts.   
• To improve leadership and decision -making participation for female Officials.  
• To provide support and assistance for female Officials to balance family life and sport duties.  
• To provide support and advice regarding any wellbeing challenges during competition.  
• To provide the necessary support and assistance in regard to  pregnancy and lactation when 
applicable for the Official.  
 
17 
October  2025   
 
VIDEO REVIEW COORDINATOR  
 
It is the responsibility of the WKF RC Video Review Coordinator to ensure that the video review 
during WKF official tournaments is done according to the specified rules and in such a way that the 
concepts of fair play and correctness are guaranteed.  
 
The following tasks are part of the VR Coordinator’s assignments:  
 
1. In cooperation with the local organizing commission, ensure that the video review room has 
sufficient capacity to accommodate the designated VR supervisors (VRS).  
 
2. Together with the software provider, ensuring that all electronic equipment including 
cameras, TV monitors, and communications are running well and according to specifications.  
 
3. It is the sole responsibility of the VR Coordinator to guarantee that there are no conflicts of 
interest between the VR supervisors and the competitors or/and teams during all bouts.  
 
4. Jointly with the RC Chairman and Secretaries conduct the required educational VR courses 
and examinations in order to test the candidates and award VR licenses.  
 
5. The VR Coordinator will be in charge of the well -being of the VR supervisors regarding 
working shifts, coffee rests, and lunch breaks.  
 
6. When evaluating the VR supervisors, (according to the WKF ranking criteria) the VR 
Coordinator will present the evaluation results to the RC Chairman and Secretary for further 
handling in accordance with the ranking rules.  
 
7. The VR Coordinator is expected to cooperate and have necessary communication with all 
involved during WKF official Events where Video Review is required.  
 
 
LOC & LOGISTICS COORDINATOR  
 
The task of the RC LOC Coordinator is to ensure that the logistics necessary for the transportation 
and administration of the RC members and officials during WKF Referee courses and 
championships is adequate and in accordance with the rules of the WKF orga nizing and/or Referee 
Commission.  
 
Having proper communication and cooperation with the LOC on site and/or the RC Executive Bureau 
in order to make sure the following goes well and as expected:  
 
18 
October  2025   
• Transportation from the official hotel to the venue and back for RC Members and other 
Officials.  
• Catering for RC Members and other Officials during competitions.  
• Monitoring that the different schedules for the RC Members and other Officials are according 
to the program or the bulletin.  
 
 
REFEREES’ UNIFORM AND WELL -BEING COORDINATOR  
 
It is the duty of the Referees uniform and well -being Coordinator  (RUWC) to make sure those officials 
attending WKF referee courses, briefings, seminars and championships are up to date with the 
uniform they are wearing. Having the official uniform according to the codes in the rule book is a 
requirement in order to par ticipate in WKF events.  
 
Monitoring the Official´s well -being during WKF Events is also part of the RUWC’s tasks.  Having 
good communication with other RC members, Tatami Managers and officials is crucial in order to 
achieve the goal.  
 
1. At the beginning of WKF referee courses, championships, or other events, the referee´s uniform 
should be checked. The officials that do not meet the requirements will be given a chance to correct 
matters in order to be able to continue participating.  
 
2. Only the WKF official referee (Bronze - Silver - Gold) pin or a temporary pin that the WKF -EC 
approves for an occasion is allowed to have on the Referee jacket.  
 
3. In the event that an official is not satisfied with the way he/she has been treated by a RC member, 
Tatami Manager, or colleague, the RUWS Coordinator will be in charge of helping and finding a 
solution.  
 
4. It is also the task of the RUWC to help and find a solution in case an official is (because of illness) 
physically or mentally unfit for performing his/her duties.  
 
5. In the event that the Referees ’ uniform and well -being Coordinator cannot find a way to help an 
official or solve the problem, the RUWC will consult the RC Executive Bureau in order to find a 
solution.  
 
 
