 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WKF GENERAL REGULATIONS  
FOR COACHES  
 
  
 
 
 
 
1. PREAMBLE  ............................................................................................................ 3  
2. DEFINITIONS:  ........................................................................................................ 4  
3. LICENSE LEVELS  ..................................................................................................... 6  
4. LICENSES VALIDITY AND RENEWALS  ........................................................................ 8  
5. DIPLOMAS  ............................................................................................................ 9  
6. COACH CARDS  ....................................................................................................... 9  
7. COACH SUSPENSION  ............................................................................................ 10  
8. NATIONALITY  ...................................................................................................... 11  
9. GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS  .................................................................................... 12  
10. DUPLICATION  ...................................................................................................... 13  
11. COMUNICATIONS  ................................................................................................ 13  
12. ISSUES NOT COVERED  .......................................................................................... 13  
Annex 1 ....................................................................................................................... 14  
Annex 2 ....................................................................................................................... 15  
 
  
 
 
 
1. PREAMBLE  
Coaches are considered one of the important assets in Karate community. It is the duty 
of the World Karate Federation (WKF) to ensure the quality of coaches participating in 
WKF events. The coaches’ education and certification programme are a crucial tool to 
keep sustainable development of the coaches excellence level which is normally 
reflected by the level of participated athletes and level of Karate competitions worldwide 
as well.  
The WKF is working for a safe and heathy environment for all coaches through their 
education with the latest WKF competition rules, organizational rules, safe sport policy, 
antidoping rules, ethics, and fair play etiquettes.  
To ensure a fair outcome of WKF competitions in line with the professional and ethical 
foundations, the WKF set a certification programme of well-defined practical procedures 
to give a fair chance for all Coaches to support their athletes in WKF events while 
keeping the primary education and capacity building under their National Federation 
responsibilities.  
It is important to note that any coach wishing to obtain a WKF Coach License, or to be 
part of a WKF event, must necessarily be a WKF member through affiliation to one of 
WKF member National Federations (NF). Accordingly, coaches abide by the applicable 
WKF rules and regulations, including the WKF Disciplinary and Ethics Code. 
Suspensions of coaches at a national level – duly communicated and substantiated by 
the relevant NF – will be applied at a WKF level.  
The WKF assigned the responsibilities of the coaches' education and certification to the 
WKF Technical Commission (TC). The WKF Technical Commission in coordination with 
the Rules and Ranking commission and Referee commission will therefore ensure that 
the latest information and current applied practices are delivered on time to the 
addressed coaches. The WKF HQ in coordination with the IT provider and the WKF 
Technical Commission Chair will keep and monitor the updated database for all 
registered coaches.  
The TC will be fully responsible for the application of this programme with a close 
monitoring of the Coaches’ behaviour by applying effective communication 
methodologies to ensure a smooth communication between coaches and all WKF 
entities. 
 
 
 
 
 
2. DEFINITIONS:  
Coach: Support personnel for the athletes' technical assistance in WKF events, duly 
registered on the WKF database and affiliated to a WKF National Federation (NF) 
member, eventually through a NF club.  
Coach Agreement:  Basic description of the coach’s scope and functions, and the 
coach’s personal agreement and commitment to the standards set forth in the 
agreement in consistence with the WKF Disciplinary and Ethics Code.  
Accredited Coach Briefing:  A seminar intended for coaches' education with the latest 
applied competition rules and regulations, which is held either on-site on the day before 
the start of WKF events or online through the WKF E-learning platform.  
WKF Event:  WKF Event:  Considering WKF Events, the following Karate Competitions 
included in the WKF Calendar:  
 Individual World Senior Championships Qualification Tournament  
 Individual World Senior Championships Final Phase  
 World Cup (Team World Senior Championships)  
 Cadet, Junior & U21 World Championships  
 Karate One;  
 Premier League  
 Series A 
 Youth League  
Participation in a WKF Event:  Participation in an event is recognized by officiating in 
at least one bout of one event.  
License validity:  The validity of a license is defined as the period beginning on the date 
the license is obtained and expiring on the last day of the third year counted from the 
date of obtaining the license. (For example, if the license is obtained on January 3, 2025, 
it will expire on January 3, 2028)  
Suspension: A period of illegibility during which a coach is not allowed to coach athletes 
in any WKF events or represent any NFs with any other official role in WKF events.  
Accredited Coach:  A coach having obtained the Accredited Coach Level and therefore 
eligible to coach athletes during Youth League and Series A events.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kata Certified Coach: A coach having obtained the Kata Coach Certification and 
therefore eligible to coach athletes in Kata competitions during Premier League, 
Individual World Senior Championships Final Phase, Team World Senior 
Championships (World Cup ), multisport Games, Cadet, Junior & U21 World 
Championships, and Individual World Senior Championships Qualification Tournament.  
Kumite Certified Coach:  A coach having obtained the Kumite Coach Certification and 
therefore eligible to coach athletes in Kumite competitions during Premier League, 
Individual World Senior Championships Final Phase, Team World Senior 
Championships (World Cup), multisport Games, Cadet, Junior & U21 World 
Championships, and Individual World Senior Championships Qualification Tournament.  
Karate Certified Coach:  A coach having obtained the Karate Coach Certification and 
therefore eligible to coach athletes in both Kata and Kumite competitions during Premier 
League, Individual World Senior Championships Final Phase, Team World Senior 
Championships (World Cup), multisport Games, Cadet, Junior & U21 World 
Championships, and Individual World Senior Championships Qualification Tournament. 
Moreover, this coach may become an Instructor for WKF development activities, 
including those under the Olympic Solidarity programmes.  
Eligibility:  Time duration for which the coach can coach his/her athletes according to 
his/her license level in the corresponding WKF events.  
 
  
 
 
 
3. LICENSE LEVELS  
As indicated in the Summary Table (Annex 1), there are three levels of WKF 
coach licenses.  
1. WKF Accredited Coach (ACRC) License  
Requirements:  
1) Signature of the Coach Agreement (Annex 2)  
2) Completion of the contents through one of the below:  
a. Attending an onsite Accredited Coach Briefing OR 
b. Reading the E-Learning platform contents and attending the online 
Accredited Coach Briefing  
 
Provides access for coaching at:  
 Karate One – Series A events  
 Karate One – Youth League events  
 
2.  WKF Certified Kumite or Kata Coach (KUM/KAT) License  
Requirements:  
1) Valid WKF Accredited Coach (ACRC) license at the time of passing the 
Kumite or Kata coach exam.  
2) Successful completion of the exam for the specific license for either  
a. Kumite OR 
b. Kata 
 
Provides access for coaching at:  
 Karate One – Series A events  
 Karate One – Youth League events  
 Karate One – Premier League events  
 Individual World Championships / World Cup  
 Karate competitions at Multisport events  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Karate Coach (KAR) License  
Requirements:  
1) Valid WKF Certified both KUM and KAT Coach licenses  
2) At least 5 years must have passed since the first WKF Certified Kata or 
Kumite license was obtained.  
3) Participation in at least (four) WKF events in a coaching role in the last 2 
years without any declined protests.  
4) Submission of the following education Certificates  
a. ADEL (WADA)  
b. Safe Sport (IOC)  
5) No record of breach of accreditation agreement for Coaches during past 
five years.  
Provides access for coaching at:  
 Karate One – Series A events  
 Karate One – Youth League events  
 Karate One – Premier League events  
 Individual World Championships/World Cup  
 Karate competitions at Multisport events  
 
Additionally, WKF Karate Coaches will be eligible to become instructors  for WKF 
development activities, including those under the Olympic Solidarity programmes.  
 
Exceptions:  
The Technical Commission may upon proposal of the WKF President and/or Executive 
Committee, award any of the above Coach Certifications (ACRC, KUM/KAT or KAR) to 
known experienced Coaches, provided that the candidate signs the Accreditation 
Agreement for Coaches, has proved the required experience for the certification and 
has no disciplinary record with WKF.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. LICENSES VALIDITY AND RENEWALS  
All license levels are valid for a period of three years , commencing on the date the 
license is obtained and expiring on the last day of the third year counted from the date 
of obtaining the license.  
Additionally, all coaches must participate at least one WKF Event in each year of the 
validity period of their license. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the 
revocation of the coach license.  
In order to have a new period of eligibility for their particular level of license, coaches 
must before the end of the last day of their current license expiration date to:  
 
A. Have obtained the next level of coach's license  
- ACRC   KUM/KAT  
- KUM/KAT   KAR 
 
B. Have fulfilled again all the requirements listed in the "License Levels" 
section. 
 
 
WKF Accredited Coach (ACRC) License renewal  
Coaches with a WKF Accredited Coach license (ACRC) must attend a new accredited 
coach briefing before his/her license expires for renewal.  
 
 
WKF Certified Kumite or Kata Coach (KUM or KAT) License renewal  
Coaches with a WKF Kumite and/or Kata coach license (KUM/KAT) must successfully 
complete a new KUM/KAT examination prior to the expiration of the license to be 
renewed.  
Certified KAT and/or KUM coaches, who have an eligible KAT and/or KUM license in 
force and wish to renew it, must submit the renewal application with all requirements 
and pass the examination (see License Levels section), before the last day of the 
expiration date of the KAT and/or KUM license they have in force. These coaches do 
not need to take a new ACRC briefing.  
In the event that the application for renewal of the KAT and/or KUM license is received 
after the expiration date of the license to be renewed, the coach will have to reapply for 
the ACRC License and then successfully complete a new examination for obtaining new 
KAT and/or KUM license.  
 
 
 
 
 
Karate Coach (KAR) License renewal  
Coaches with a WKF Karate Coach license (KAR) should submit a request for renewal 
of his/her license with the payment of the new WKF fees before the license expiration.  
WKF Karate Certified Coaches who have a current eligible Karate License (KAR) and 
wish to renew it, do not need to complete the coaching licensing process again (ACRC 
+ KAT + KUM), only if they proceed with the renewal of the Karate (KAR) coach's license 
before its expiration date.  
In case the request for renewal of the Karate (KAR) license is received after the expiry 
date of the license to be renewed, the coach will have to resubmit for the ACRC License, 
successfully complete a new examination for both, KAT and KUM Licenses and finally 
apply for a new Karate Coach license.  
5. DIPLOMAS  
A diploma will be issued to the applicant by WKF for each of the license levels obtained. 
It will be available for download through the E-Learning platform for those coaches who 
obtained a license in an online course or through the registration platform for those 
coaches who attended a physical course, using the WKF ID of the applicant. The original 
coach diplomas will be issued and sent by post to the corresponding national federations 
to be distributed to their coaches, upon request only.  
6. COACH CARDS  
The Coach Accreditation Cards for the Championships will be delivered to those 
Coaches who obtain some kind of certification during this Coach Programme. The 
accreditation cards must be always carried during the Championships.  
In case that the Coach has already the required license level to Coach in this particular 
event, he/she should register online during the registration period and will be able to 
collect his/her card on the day of registration confirmation and weighting process. Cards 
will be given to registered coaches in person during registration sessions.  
To obtain the cards in any WKF events, coaches should either have the required licenses 
for this particular event and have registered online in the corresponding dates or have 
attended the course and/or examinations onsite on the day before this event and are 
qualified to obtain the cards.  
Coaches registered to officiate at any WKF will not be able to carry out any other 
positions for the competition. Therefore, accreditation cards can only be valid for one 
role (athlete or coach or referee).  
 
 
 
7. COACH SUSPENSION  
The WKF Technical Commission may revoke or suspend a certification at any time for 
any breach of the Accreditation Agreement for Coaches.  
Any Coach, previously accredited, or certified, having the accreditation removed, and 
having been suspended must pass the applicable written examination for certified 
Kumite or Kata Coach in order to be eligible for re-certification, regardless of any exam 
that has been passed before.  
Any coach, who is suspended for any period, will lose all the licenses he had and must 
repeat all the levels from the beginning with the entire requirements starting from ACRC 
License after the suspension period ends.  
During the suspension period, the suspended Coach will not be able to coach or 
participate as a member of delegation with his/her federation or club in any WKF events, 
continental events, or multisport games.  
Participation in any WKF events during suspension period as a member of delegation 
will lead to further penalties to the offended coach.  
Coaching during suspension  period is considered as a serious rules violation and will be 
accordingly penalized. National federations are accountable for their coaches' 
performance and any rules violation.  
Suspensions of coaches at a national level, duly communicated and substantiated by 
the relevant national federation, will be applied at a WKF level.  
  
 
 
 
8. NATIONALITY  
At the time of receiving his/her first WKF Coach License, a Coach profile for the relevant 
Coach will be created in the WKF database under the NF of which he/she is a member, 
independently of his/her nationality (as the nationality of Coaches does not determine 
or limit his/her membership to a certain NF).  
In case that the Coach later changes the NF he is a member of, this will have to be 
requested in writing to the WKF HQ ( wkf@wkf.net ) cc the WKF Technical Commission 
(technical@wkf.net)  for approval and eventual transfer of any valid license to his/her 
profile with the new NF.  
Coaches cannot change the nationality of issued cards during the competition after 
confirming the registration or passing the examination for KAT/KUM License onsite.  
In world championships, coaches 'card will be corresponding to their profile in the WKF 
database unless the above-mentioned request submitted to the WKF and approved for 
a nominated coach to coach for another Country before the competition. Coaching at 
WKF events will follow the general regulations and, in addition to that, particular rules 
can apply for specific events.  
- For the World Championships (see WKF Compe ƟƟon Rules), coaches must 
belong to the compe Ɵtor’s NF delega Ɵon (not necessarily having the na Ɵonality 
of the NF he belongs to). Excep Ɵons to this rule are detailed in the said rules, for 
Kumite ar Ɵcle. 3.11.2.  
For Karate One events, coaches do not necessarily have to be from the same NF that 
the athlete belongs to, as the competition is of individual nature. Information of the NF 
of the coach shall not be displayed (neither during online registration nor on any other 
records).  
 
 
 
9. GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS  
NF members will be able to submit to get the ACRC License by fulfilling the requirements 
through online or onsite Accredited Coach Briefing.  
All Coach License Levels are valid during the year of obtaining this new license and it is 
compulsory to attend at least one WKF event in every following years to extend the 
validity up to the license expiration date and then submitting for renewing this license 
with its entire requirements before the end of the three years of validity.  
Coaches who fail to attend at least one WKF event in any of the following years of getting 
the licenses will automatically lose their licenses by the end of non-attending year and 
will be required to renew the license with its new entire requirement.  
Coaches are allowed to coach for more than one Federation at the World 
Championships in case of force majeure, as stated in the Kumite competition rules;  
"in compe ƟƟons with Video Review and upon prior request of the NF, WKF may authorize a coach 
from a diﬀerent delega Ɵon to act as a coach for their delega Ɵon in the situa Ɵons herein, 
provided that they comply with dress code, in order to cover the special circumstances arising of 
the need to have a coach to request Video Review "  
KAT/KUM Certified Coaches who register in one of WKF events in a particular calendar 
year cannot perform as a Referee in the same WKF calendar year with the ability to do 
so at the beginning of the next WKF calendar year.  
Coaches can attend new or updated referee courses to obtain or update their referee 
license without performing as both coaches and referees in the same calendar year.  
National Federation Presidents cannot register or perform in the role of Coach at any 
WKF or Continental Federation event.  
Athletes may attend the Accredited Coach briefing online/onsite or the certification exam 
in accordance with the rules of the General Regulations for Coaches.  
Athletes who are in possession of a WKF Coach License may only register and perform 
as an athlete or as a coach at any one WKF event, but not both. They may change from 
coaching to competing or vice versa at any time during the same calendar year, in 
accordance with Kumite Competition Rules and nationality requirements.  
Referees who wish to coach athletes in any of WKF events are not allowed to take any 
refereeing roles in any WKF events in the same calendar year and must have the coach  
license required for coaching according to these regulations with the ability of refereeing 
at the beginning of the next WKF calendar year of coaching.  
 
 
 
Referees can attend the coaches' accreditation briefings and/or certification 
Examination to obtain or upgrade their coach’s licenses without performing as both 
coaches and referees at the same calendar year.  
10. DUPLICATION  
There shall be one unique Coach Profile for each coach in the WKF database, 
containing all information. Duplications of the Coach profile used for registration of an 
event shall be the same at all instances. The status of Coaches with more than one 
profile will be set to “PENDING”, until the coach provides the WKF with an official 
communication and supporting letter of the NF to be validated confirming his/her NF 
affiliation associated with his/her coach profile, as well as the valid profile number 
(WKFID). Upon receipt of such documentation, the applicable profile will be validated 
with incumbent certificates, invalidating any other profile in his/her name.  
11. COMUNICATIONS  
The WKF TC in coordination with the WKF HQ will be responsible for coaches' licenses, 
education, certification, monitoring their behaviour, and effective communication.  
There are five main official channels for communication between coaches and WKF for 
any inquiries, sharing experience, and expressing thoughts as follows:  
1. Direct communication with Technical Commission Chairman or members.  
2. During Coach Meetings in WKF events.  
3. Proposed by National Federation Presidents in yearly congress as due.  
4. From President of National Federation of Coach to the WKF HQ.  
5. From President of National Federation of Coach to the President of WKF.  
 
12. ISSUES NOT COVERED  
From time-to-time, situations may occur where the rules fall short of giving specific 
instructions to resolve an issue. In those cases where an issue in direct relation with 
Coaches needs to be resolved, the issue shall be addressed to the Technical 
Commission Chairman for consultation before taking a decision.  
  
 
 
 
Annex 1 
Summary WKF Coach Course Programme  
  
ACCREDITED (ACRC) 
COACH CERTIFIED KUMITE OR 
KATA (KUM/KAT) COACH  CERTIFIED KARATE (KAR) 
COACH 
Requirement  
 
 
 
 
 
 Signature of the Coach 
Agreement  
 
CompleƟon of the contents 
(listening / reading)  
 
AƩending a brieﬁng (onsite / 
online) 
 
AƩending at least one WKF 
Event in each year of the 
validity period of their 
license. Valid Accredited Coach License.  
 
 
Successful comple Ɵon of the 
exam(s) for the speciﬁc 
license(s): Kata / Kumite  
 
AƩending at least one WKF Event 
in each year of the validity period 
of their license.  Valid Kumite and Kata Coach 
License 
 
At least 5 years since the ﬁrst 
WKF Kata or Kumite Coach 
License was obtained.  
 
AƩending at least one WKF 
Event in each year of the validity 
period of their license.  
 
Minimum 4 WKF events within 
the last 2 years as coach at 
WKF events without any 
declined protests.  
 
EducaƟon CerƟﬁcates 
 ADEL (WADA)  
 Safe Sport (IOC)  
Grants 
access to / 
provides 
eligibility to  Karate One – Series A events  
Karate One – Youth League 
events Karate One – Series A events  
Karate One – Youth League 
events 
Karate One – Premier League 
events 
World Championships * 
MulƟsport Games  
 
 
*Applicable also for the Para-
Karate categories.  Karate One – Series A events  
Karate One – Youth League 
events 
Karate One – Premier League 
events 
World Championships  
MulƟsport Games  
Become an Instructor for WKF 
development ac ƟviƟes, 
including those under the 
Olympic Solidarity 
programmes.  
Validity  3 years. 
 3 years 3 years 
Costs 300 EUR presen Ɵal 
350 EUR online  
 350 EUR presen Ɵal 
400EUR online  
 500 EUR 
 
 
 
 
Annex 2 
 
ACCREDITATION AGREEMENT FOR WKF COACHES  
 
The undersigned hereby agrees to conform to the following conditions as a 
prerequisite for coaching at WKF events and obtaining and maintaining WKF 
coaching licenses:  
 
As a coach I am responsible for:  
1. the safety and well-being of all athletes assigned to me by my National 
Federation, both inside and outside the competition area;  
2. the courteous and disciplined conduct of myself and my assigned athletes, 
both inside and outside the competition area;  
3. the adherence of myself and my assigned athletes to instructions given by 
the referee or other empowered tournament officials;  
4. the adherence of myself and my assigned athletes to the current WKF anti-
doping rules;  
5. to keep myself abreast of current competition rules and ensure that my 
assigned athletes abide by the same rules & WADA code;  
6. avoiding protests without basis in the rules;  
7. to adhere to the WKF Athlete Safeguarding Policy without compromise in 
the fight against harassment and abuse towards athletes.  
 
I hereby confirm that I understand that by non-compliance of this Accreditation 
Agreement may forfeit my right to coach at WKF events, and that such non-
compliance may result in the revocation or suspension of any coaching license 
issued to me by the WKF, based on the decision of the Technical Commission.  
 
NAME:  
 
……………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
 
NATIONAL FEDERATION:  
 
……………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
 
 
Date: ……………………… Signature: ………………………………………………  
 
